abandon 
BrE əˈband(ə)n, AmE əˈbændən 

A.  transitive verb 
① (desert) 抛弃 pāoqì ‹person›; 离弃 líqì ‹place, building›to abandon [somebody] to his/her fate 抛弃某人让其听天由命 to abandon one's post 擅离职守 to abandon ship 弃船 
② (stop, give up) 放弃 fàngqì ‹hope, plan›; 中止 zhōngzhǐ ‹match, project, search›; 戒除 jièchú ‹habit›
B.  reflexive verb to abandon oneself to [something]; 沉湎于 chénmiǎn yú to abandon oneself to a life of pleasure 恣意享乐 zìyì xiǎnglè to abandon oneself to despair 陷入绝望 xiànrù juéwàng 
C.  nounUncountable放纵 fàngzòng with gay or wild abandon 放纵地 
abandon 
▶verb
1 the party abandoned policies that made it unelectable: renounce, relinquish, dispense with, disclaim, forgo, disown, disavow, discard, wash one's hands of; give up, withdraw, drop, jettison, do away with; informal ax, ditch, dump, scrap, scrub, junk, deep-six; formal forswear, abjure. ANTONYMS keep, retain.
2 by that time, she had abandoned painting: give up, stop, cease, drop, forgo, desist from, dispense with, have done with, abstain from, discontinue, break off, refrain from, set aside; informal cut out, kick, pack in, quit. ANTONYMS take up, continue.
3 he abandoned his wife and children: desert, leave, leave high and dry, turn one's back on, cast aside, break (up) with; jilt, strand, leave stranded, leave in the lurch, throw over; informal walk out on, run out on, dump, ditch; literary forsake.
4 the skipper gave the order to abandon ship: vacate, leave, depart from, withdraw from, quit, evacuate.
5 a vast expanse of territory was abandoned to the invaders: relinquish, surrender, give up, cede, yield, leave. ANTONYMS keep, claim.
6 she abandoned herself to the sensuousness of the music: indulge in, give way to, give oneself up to, yield to, lose oneself to/in. ANTONYMS control oneself.
▶noun at age sixty he had no less abandon than when he was twenty: uninhibitedness, recklessness, lack of restraint, lack of inhibition, wildness, impulsiveness, impetuosity, immoderation, wantonness. ANTONYMS self-control.CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD See relinquish .These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
