above 
BrE əˈbʌv, AmE əˈbəv 

A.  preposition 
① (in/at a higher place than) 在…上面 zài… shàngmian 2,000 feet above sea level 海拔2,000英尺 the water came above my knees 水没过了我的膝盖 you are above me on the list 名单上你排在我前面 
② (north of) 在…以北 zài… yǐ běi 
③ (upstream of) 在…的上游 zài… de shàngyóu 
④ (morally) 不屑于 bùxiè yú he's not above bending the rules 他不在乎随意改变规则 
⑤ (in preference to) 优先于 yōuxiān yú to admire [something] above all others 独好某事物 to value happiness above wealth 珍视幸福甚于财富 
⑥ (higher than, superior in status to) 高于 gāo yú the E above middle C 高于中央C音的E音 she married above her 她嫁给了地位比自己高的人 to be/get above oneself 自高自大/变得自高自大 
⑦ (greater in quantity than) 大于 dà yú children above the age of
3 3岁以上的儿童 to rise above 上升至…以上 ‹amount, average›
⑧ (beyond) 超脱于 chāotuō yú to be above suspicion 无可置疑 
⑨ (too difficult for) 超出…能力所及 chāochū… nénglì suǒ jí the book was above most readers 那书多数读者读不懂 
B.  adverb 
① (in/at a higher place) 在上面 zài shàngmian the room above 上面的屋子 the view from above 高处看到的景致 
② (superior in status) 在上级 zài shàngjí an order from above 上级的命令 
③ (earlier in text) 在上文 zài shàngwén see above 见前文 as stated above 如前所述 
④ (in the sky) 在空中 zài kōngzhōng the stars above 天上的星星 in Heaven above 在天上 
C.  adjective attributive 上述的 shàngshù de 
D.  the above pronoun formal (person) 上文提到的人 shàngwén tídào de rén ; (thing) 上文提到的事物 shàngwén tídào de shìwù I agree with the above 我同意上文所述 
E.  above all adverb phrase (most importantly) 最重要的是 zuì zhòngyào de shì ; (especially) 尤其 yóuqí he is concerned above all with facts 他最在意的是事实 above all else he's a businessman 他说到底是个商人 
above 
əˈbəv

▶preposition
1 in extended space over and not touching: a display of fireworks above the town 
[with verb] : a cable runs above the duct. 
• extending upward over: her arms above her head. 
• higher than and to one side of; overlooking: in the hills above the capital 
on the wall above the altar.
2 at a higher level or layer than: bruises above both eyes 
small windows above the aisles. 
• higher in grade or rank than: at a level above the common people. 
• considered of higher status or worth than; too good for: she married above her 
above reproach. 
• in preference to: they cynically chose profit above car safety. 
• at a higher volume or pitch than: above a whisper 
it went unheard above the din.
3 higher than (a specified amount, rate, or norm): above average 
above freezing 
above sea level 
the unemployment rate will soar above its present level. 
▶adverb at a higher level or layer: place a quantity of mud in a jar with water above. 
• higher in grade or rank: an officer of the rank of superintendent or above. 
• higher than a specified amount, rate, or norm: boats of 31 ft. or above. 
• (in printed text) mentioned earlier or further up on the same page: the two cases described above 
see above left 
[as adjective] : at the above address 
[as noun] : since writing the above, I have reconsidered. 
PHRASES
above all (else) more so than anything else: he was concerned above all to speak the truth.above oneself conceited; arrogant. from above from overhead: branches rained from above. 
• from a position of higher rank or authority: mass culture is imposed from above. not be above be capable of stooping to (an unworthy act): he was not above practical jokes. over and above see over. ORIGIN Old English abufan (as an adverb), from a- ‘on’ + bufan (from bi ‘by’ + ufan ‘above’).
