abstract 
A.  /BrE ˈabstrakt, AmE æbˈstrækt, ˈæbˌstrækt
adjective 
① (theoretical) 抽象的 chōuxiàng de ‹idea, theory, entity, symbol›; 理论上的 lǐlùn shang de ‹argument, speculation, problem›
② Art 抽象（派）的 chōuxiàng(pài) de 
③ Linguistics 抽象的 chōuxiàng de ‹noun, adjective, verb›
B.  /BrE ˈabstrakt, AmE ˈæbˌstrækt
noun 
① Uncountable(theoretical) 抽象 chōuxiàng in the abstract 在抽象意义上 
② Countable(summary) 摘要 zhāiyào 
③ CountableArt 抽象派作品 chōuxiàngpài zuòpǐn 
C.  /BrE əbˈstrakt, AmE ˈæbˌstrækt
transitive verb 
① (summarize) 写…的摘要 xiě… de zhāiyào ‹information, book›
② formal (remove) 提取 tíqǔ abstract facts from a mound of periodicals 从一大堆期刊中摘取事实 
D.  /BrE əbˈstrakt, AmE æbˈstrækt
reflexive verb to abstract oneself from [something] 使自己脱离某事物 shǐ zìjǐ tuōlí mǒu shìwù 
abstract 
▶adjective 
abˈstrakt ˈabˌstrakt 
existing in thought or as an idea but not having a physical or concrete existence: abstract concepts such as love or beauty. 
• dealing with ideas rather than events: the novel was too abstract and esoteric to sustain much attention. 
• not based on a particular instance; theoretical: we have been discussing the problem in a very abstract manner. 
• (of a word, especially a noun) denoting an idea, quality, or state rather than a concrete object: abstract words like truth or equality. 
• relating to abstract art: abstract pictures that look like commercial color charts. 
▶verb 
abˈstrakt 
[with object]
1 consider (something) theoretically or separately from something else: to abstract science and religion from their historical context can lead to anachronism 
[no object] : he cannot form a general notion by abstracting from particulars.
2 extract or remove (something): applications to abstract more water from streams. 
• used euphemistically to say that someone has stolen something: his pockets contained all he had been able to abstract from the apartment. 
• (abstract oneself) withdraw: as our relationship deepened you seemed to abstract yourself.
3 make a written summary of (an article or book): staff who index and abstract material for an online database. 
▶noun 
ˈabˌstrakt 

1 a summary of the contents of a book, article, or formal speech: an abstract of his inaugural address.
2 an abstract work of art: a big unframed abstract.
3 (the abstract) that which is abstract; the theoretical consideration of something: the abstract must be made concrete by examples. 
PHRASES
in the abstract in a general way; without reference to specific instances: there's a fine line between promoting US business interests in the abstract and promoting specific companies.DERIVATIVES abstractly 
əbˈstrak(t)lē abˈstrak(t)lē 
adverb. abstractor 
əbˈstraktər abˈstraktər 
noun abstract ( sense
3 of the verb) ORIGIN Middle English: from Latin abstractus, literally ‘drawn away,’ past participle of abstrahere, from ab- ‘from’ + trahere ‘draw off.’
