abuse 
A.  /BrE əˈbjuːz, AmE əˈbjuz
transitive verb 
① (mistreat) 虐待 nüèdài ; (sexually) 对…进行性虐待 duì… jìnxíng xìngnüèdài 
② (misuse) 滥用 lànyòng ‹power, position, drugs›to abuse [somebody's] confidence 辜负某人的信任 to abuse the hostess's hospitality 利用女主人的好客 
③ (insult) 辱骂 rǔmà ‹person›
B.  /BrE əˈbjuːs, AmE əˈbjus
noun 
① Uncountable(maltreatment) 虐待 nüèdài ; (sexual) 性虐待 xìngnüèdài 
② Uncountable and countable(misuse) 滥用 lànyòng abuses of the judicial system 践踏司法体制的行为 
③ Uncountable(insult) 辱骂 rǔmà a stream or shower of abuse 一通谩骂 a term of abuse 骂人话 to hurl abuse at [somebody] 破口大骂某人 
abuse 
▶verb 
əˈbyo͞oz 
[with object]
1 use (something) to bad effect or for a bad purpose; misuse: the judge abused his power by imposing the fines. 
• make excessive and habitual use of (alcohol or drugs, especially illegal ones).
2 treat (a person or an animal) with cruelty or violence, especially regularly or repeatedly: riders who abuse their horses should be prosecuted. 
• assault (someone, especially a woman or child) sexually: he was a depraved man who had abused his two young daughters 
(as adjective abused) : abused children. 
• (abuse oneself) euphemistic masturbate. 
• use or treat in such a way as to cause damage or harm: he had been abusing his body for years.
3 speak in an insulting and offensive way to or about (someone): the referee was abused by players from both teams. 
▶noun 
əˈbyo͞os 

1 the improper use of something: alcohol abuse 
an abuse of public funds. 
• unjust or corrupt practice: protection against fraud and abuse 
human rights abuses.
2 cruel and violent treatment of a person or animal: a black eye and other signs of physical abuse. 
• violent treatment involving sexual assault, especially on a repeated basis: young people who have suffered sexual abuse.
3 insulting and offensive language: waving his fists and hurling abuse at the driver. ORIGIN late Middle English: via Old French from Latin abus- ‘misused,’ from the verb abuti, from ab- ‘away’ (i.e., ‘wrongly’) + uti ‘to use.’
