access 
BrE ˈaksɛs, AmE ˈækˌsɛs 

A.  nounUncountable
① (means of entry) 入口 rùkǒu access to the centre is from the street 中心的入口在大街上 ‘no access’ “禁止入内” to obtain or get or gain access to [something]; 获得进入某处的机会 an access door 通道门 
② (ability to obtain, use) 享用机会 xiǎngyòng jīhuì to have access to information/education 有获得信息/接受教育的机会 
③ Law (right to visit) 探视权 tànshìquán to have/grant/deny right of access 拥有/给予/拒绝给予探视权 
④ Computing 存取 cúnqǔ 
B.  transitive verb 
① (approach, enter) 进入 jìnrù the island can be accessed by road at low tide 退潮时可从陆路登上该岛 
② Computing 存取 cúnqǔ ‹data›; 访问 fǎngwèn ‹website›
access 
ˈakˌses

▶noun
1 a means of approaching or entering a place: the staircase gives access to the top floor 
wheelchair access 
the bypass will greatly improve road access 
the building has a side access. 
• the right or opportunity to use or benefit from something: do you have access to a computer? 
awards to help people gain access to training. 
• the right or opportunity to approach or see someone: we were denied access to our grandson. 
• the action or process of obtaining or retrieving information stored in a computer's memory: this prevents unauthorized access or inadvertent deletion of the file. 
• [as modifier] denoting noncommercial broadcasting produced by local independent groups, rather than by professionals: public-access television.
2 [in singular] an attack or outburst of an emotion: I was suddenly overcome with an access of rage. 
▶verb [with object]
1 approach or enter (a place): single rooms have private baths accessed via the balcony.
2 Computing obtain, examine, or retrieve (data or a file). ORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘sudden attack of illness’): from Latin accessus, from the verb accedere ‘to approach’ (see accede). Sense
1 is first recorded in the early 17th century. usage: The verb access is standard and common in computing and related terminology ( employees can access the office network). But its use outside computing contexts, although well established in the language, is sometimes criticized as being ‘jargon’ ( we lacked adequate supply to access the markets we needed to reach). Other words or phrases such as ‘enter’ or ‘gain access to’ are suggested as ready substitutes. For another example of a controversial formation of a verb from a noun, see usage at impact .
