accidental 
BrE aksɪˈdɛnt(ə)l, AmE ˌæksəˈdɛn(t)l 
A. adjective 
① (by mishap) 意外的 yìwài de ‹death, injury, killing›
② (by chance) 偶然的 ǒurán de ‹meeting, event›an accidental meeting 不期而遇 
③ (incidental) 附带的 fùdài de ‹benefit, effect›; 次要的 cìyào de ‹element, feature›
B.  noun Music 临时记号 línshí jìhao 
accidental 
▶adjective
1 an accidental meeting: fortuitous, chance, adventitious, fluky, coincidental, casual, serendipitous, random; unexpected, unforeseen, unanticipated, unlooked-for, unintentional, unintended, inadvertent, unplanned, unpremeditated, unthinking, unwitting. ANTONYMS intentional.
2 the location is accidental and contributes nothing to the poem: incidental, unimportant, by the way, by the by, supplementary, subsidiary, subordinate, secondary, accessory, peripheral, tangential, extraneous, extrinsic, irrelevant, nonessential, inessential. ANTONYMS deliberate.CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD accidental, adventitious, casual, contingent, fortuitous, incidental Things don't always go as planned, but there are many ways to describe the role that chance plays. Accidental applies to events that occur entirely by chance (an accidental encounter with the candidate at the restaurant); but it is so strongly influenced by the noun accident that it carries connotations of undesirable or possibly disastrous results (an accidental miscalculation of the distance he had to jump). A casual act or event is one that is random or unpremeditated (a casual conversation with her son's teacher in the grocery store), in which the role that chance plays is not always clear. Something that is incidental may or may not involve chance; it typically refers to what is secondary or nonessential (incidental expenses in the budget) or what occurs without design or regularity (incidental lighting throughout the garden). Adventitious also implies the lack of an essential relationship, referring to something that is a mere random occurrence (adventitious circumstances that led to victory). In contrast, contingent points to something that is entirely dependent on an uncertain event for its existence or occurrence (travel plans that are contingent upon the weather). Fortuitous refers to chance events of a fortunate nature; it is about as far as one can get from accidental (a fortuitous meeting with the candidate just before the press conference).These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
