accident 
BrE ˈaksɪd(ə)nt, AmE ˈæksədənt 
noun 
① (mishap) 事故 shìgù to meet with/have an accident 碰上/出事故 a slight/serious/fatal accident 轻微/严重/致命的事故 accident and emergency service 急诊服务 I had an accident with the teapot 我不小心把茶壶打翻了 accidents will happen! 出意外是难免的！ the baby's had a little accident euphemistic 婴儿拉到裤子里了 a chapter of accidents 接二连三的事故 
② (chance) 偶然的事 ǒurán de shì it is no accident that … …绝非偶然 by accident 意外地 he is rich by an accident of birth 他碰巧生来就富有 
accident 
ˈaksədənt

▶noun
1 an unfortunate incident that happens unexpectedly and unintentionally, typically resulting in damage or injury: he had an accident at the factory 
if you are unable to work owing to accident or sickness 
[as modifier] : an accident investigator. 
• a crash involving road or other vehicles, typically one that causes serious damage or injury: four people were killed in a car accident. 
• informal used euphemistically to refer to an incidence of incontinence, typically by a child or an animal.
2 an event that happens by chance or that is without apparent or deliberate cause: the pregnancy was an accident 
it is no accident that my tale features a tragic romance. 
• the working of fortune; chance: my faith is an accident of birth, not a matter of principled commitment 
he came to Harvard largely through accident.
3 Philosophy (in Aristotelian thought) a property of a thing that is not essential to its nature. 
PHRASES
an accident waiting to happen
1 a potentially disastrous situation, typically caused by negligent or faulty procedures.
2 a person certain to cause trouble. accidents will happen however careful you try to be, it is inevitable that some unfortunate or unforeseen events will occur: problems like these should not occur, but accidents will happen. by accident unintentionally; by chance: she didn't get where is today by accident.ORIGIN late Middle English (in the general sense ‘an event’): via Old French from Latin accident- ‘happening,’ from the verb accidere, from ad- ‘toward, to’ + cadere ‘to fall.’
