act 
BrE akt, AmE ækt 

A.  noun 
① (action, deed) 行为 xíngwéi to commit or carry out an act of cruelty 做出残忍的行为 to be in the act of doing [something]; 正在做某事 
② ( also Act) Law, Politics 法案 fǎ'àn drug trafficking act 反贩毒法 an Act of Parliament/Congress 议会/国会法案 
③ Theatre 一幕 yī mù a comedy/tragedy in three acts 一部三幕喜剧/悲剧 
④ (performance, routine) 表演 biǎoyǎn to put on an act figurative 假装 jiǎzhuāng it's all an act figurative 这就是一场戏 to get or be in on the act colloquial 插一手 to get one's act together colloquial 使行动有条理 to do a song and dance act especially BrE colloquial 小题大做 
B.  transitive verb 扮演 bànyǎn ‹role, part›to act the fool 装傻 to act the stern father 拿出严父的样子 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (take action) 行动 xíngdòng I'm not empowered to act in such matters 我无权在此类事情上采取行动 to act for or on behalf of [somebody]; 代表某人行事 to act on insufficient evidence 证据不足就行事 to act for the best/out of fear 出于好意/恐惧 
② (behave) 表现 biǎoxiàn 
③ Theatre 表演 biǎoyǎn ; (pretend) 假装 jiǎzhuāng 
④ (serve) 担当 dāndāng to act as [something]/[somebody]/in a role; 充当某物/某人/某角色 the grand piano also acts as a drinks table 这架大钢琴也兼作吧台 she acted as the interpreter 她担任口译 
⑤ (take effect) 有作用 yǒu zuòyòng this drug acts very fast 这种药见效很快 alcohol acts on the brain 酒精对大脑有影响 PHRASAL VERBS act out transitive verb [act something out], [act out something] 将…表演出来 jiāng… biǎoyǎn chūlai ‹part, scene›; 流露 liúlù ‹feelings›; 充当 chōngdāng ‹role›to act out one's sexual fantasies 实现自己的性幻想 act up intransitive verb (misbehave) 捣蛋 dǎodàn ; (malfunction) 出毛病 chū máobìng my rheumatic joints are acting up in this cold! 天太冷，我的风湿性关节炎又犯了！ 
act 
akt

▶verb [no object]
1 take action; do something: they urged Washington to act 
[with infinitive] : governments must act to reduce pollution. 
• (act on) take action according to or in the light of: I shall certainly act on his suggestion. 
• (act for) take action in order to bring about: one's ability to act for community change. 
• (act for/on behalf of) represent (someone) on a contractual, legal, or paid basis: he chose an attorney to act for him. 
• (act from/out of) be motivated by: you acted from greed.
2 [with adverbial] behave in the way specified: they followed the man who was seen acting suspiciously 
he acts as if he owned the place. 
• (act as/like) behave in the manner of: try to act like civilized adults.
3 (act as) fulfill the function or serve the purpose of: they need volunteers to act as foster parents. 
• have the effect of: a five-year sentence will act as a deterrent.
4 take effect; have a particular effect: bacteria act on proteins and sugar.
5 perform a fictional role in a play, movie, or television production: she acted in her first professional role at the age of six. 
• [with object] perform (a part or role): he acted the role of the dragon 
he got the chance to act out other people's jobs. 
• [with complement] behave so as to appear to be; pretend to be: I acted dumb at first. 
• [with object] (act something out) perform a narrative as if it were a play: encouraging students to act out the stories. 
• [with object] (act something out) Psychoanalysis express repressed or unconscious feelings in overt behavior: the impulses of hatred and killing which some human beings act out. 
▶noun
1 a thing done; a deed: a criminal act 
the act of writing down one's thoughts 
an act of heroism.
2 [in singular] a pretense: she was putting on an act and laughing a lot. 
• [with adjective or noun modifier] a particular type of behavior or routine: he did his Sir Galahad act.
3 Law a written ordinance of Congress, or another legislative body; a statute: the act to abolish slavery. 
• a document attesting a legal transaction. 
• (often acts) dated the recorded decisions or proceedings of a committee or an academic body.
4 a main division of a play, ballet, or opera. 
• a set performance: her one-woman poetry act. 
• a performing group: an act called the Apple Blossom Sisters. 
PHRASES
act of God an instance of uncontrollable natural forces in operation (often used in insurance claims). act of grace a privilege or concession that cannot be claimed as a right. catch someone in the act (usually be caught in the act) surprise someone in the process of doing something wrong: the thieves were caught in the act. get one's act together informal organize oneself in the manner required in order to achieve something. get (or be) in on the act informal become or be involved in a particular activity, in order to gain profit or advantage. in the act of in the process of: they photographed him in the act of reading other people's mail. read someone the Riot Act see Riot Act. a tough (or hard) act to follow an achievement or performance that sets a standard regarded as being difficult for others to measure up to.PHRASAL VERBS act out misbehave, especially when unhappy or stressed: many children who act out while awaiting placement in a health care facility end up in juvenile detention. act up (of a thing) fail to function properly: the plane's engine was acting up. 
• (of a person) misbehave.DERIVATIVES actability 
ˌaktəˈbilitē 
noun act ( sense
5 of the verb) . actable adjective act ( sense
5 of the verb) ORIGIN late Middle English: from Latin actus ‘event, thing done,’ act- ‘done,’ from the verb agere, reinforced by the French noun acte .
