action 
BrE ˈakʃ(ə)n, AmE ˈækʃ(ə)n 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(process of doing something, deed) 行动 xíngdòng to take action (against [somebody]/[something]); （针对某人/某事物）采取行动 a man/woman of action 实干的男人/女人 to be pushed into action against [somebody]/[something] 被迫对某人/某事采取措施 to put or translate a plan/an idea into action 将计划/想法付诸实施 to want a piece or share of the action colloquial 想分一杯羹 to judge [somebody] by his/her actions 通过某人的表现来评判某人 to suit the action to the word 言行一致 actions speak louder than words proverb 事实胜于雄辩 
② Uncountable and countableMilitary 作战 zuòzhàn to see (some) action 经历战斗 to be killed in action 阵亡 to be in or go into action 投入战斗 figurative he's laid up and out of action 他因伤卧床，不能参战 
③ Uncountable and countableTheatre, Cinema 情节 qíngjié the action of the drama takes place in antiquity 剧中的故事发生在古代 action! (director's instruction) 开拍！ 
④ CountableLaw 诉讼 sùsòng to institute or bring an action against [somebody] 起诉某人 
⑤ CountableMechanics 机械装置 jīxiè zhuāngzhì the piano had a very stiff action 那架钢琴的琴键很紧 
⑥ CountableSport (of cricketing bowler or tennis player) 动作 dòngzuò 
⑦ CountableChemistry 作用 zuòyòng the action of salt on ice causes it to melt 盐作用于冰使其融化 
B.  transitive verb 实施 shíshī ‹procedure›; 采取 cǎiqǔ ‹measure›; 处理 chǔlǐ ‹request›
action 
ˈakSH(ə)n

▶noun
1 the fact or process of doing something, typically to achieve an aim: he vowed to take tougher action against persistent offenders 
if there is a breach of regulations, we will take action. 
• the way in which something such as a chemical has an effect or influence: the seeds require the catalytic action of water to release hotness. 
• armed conflict: servicemen listed as missing in action during the war. 
• a military engagement: a rearguard action. 
• the events represented in a story or play: the action is set in the country. 
• informal exciting or notable activity: the nonstop action of mountain biking 
people in the media want to be where the action is. 
• informal betting. 
• [as exclamation] used by a movie director as a command to begin: lights, camera, action!
2 a thing done; an act: she frequently questioned his actions 
I would not be responsible for my actions if I saw him. 
• a legal process; a lawsuit: an action for damages. 
• a gesture or movement: his actions emphasized his words.
3 a manner or style of doing something, typically the way in which a mechanism works or a person moves: a high paddle action in canoeing 
the weapon has speed and smooth action. 
• the mechanism that makes a machine or instrument work: a piano with an escapement action. 
PHRASES
go into action start work or activity. in action engaged in a certain activity; in operation. out of action temporarily unable to engage in a certain activity; not working: a heart attack put him out of action 
the ship was out of action for
16 days. put into action put into effect; carry out.ORIGIN late Middle English: via Old French from Latin actio(n-), from agere ‘do, act.’
