address 
BrE əˈdrɛs, AmE əˈdrɛs, ˈæˌdrɛs 

A.  noun 
① (place of residence) 地址 dìzhǐ not known at this address 查无此人 
② (speech) 演说 yǎnshuō to give or deliver an address 发表演说 
③ (as etiquette) 称呼 chēnghu form or manner of address (for [somebody]) （对某人的）称呼 
④ Computing 地址 dìzhǐ 
B.  transitive verb 
① (write address on) 在…上写姓名地址 zài… shang xiě xìngmíng dìzhǐ to address [something] to [somebody] 把某物写上姓名地址寄给某人 to be wrongly addressed 写错姓名地址 
② (speak to) 向…发表演说 xiàng… fābiǎo yǎnshuō Mr X will now address the meeting 现在由X先生向大会致辞 
③ (aim) 使…有针对性 shǐ… yǒu zhēnduìxìng ‹remark›to address [something] to [somebody]; 向某人述说某事 any complaints should be addressed to the manager 任何意见都应当向经理提出 
④ (tackle) 处理 chǔlǐ ‹task, problem›
⑤ (use title of) 称呼 chēnghu to address [somebody] as [something]; 用某称呼叫某人 
C.  reflexive verb to address oneself to [something]; 致力于某事 zhìlì yú mǒu shì we'll have to address ourselves seriously to the task 我们将不得不认真对待这一任务 
address 
əˈdres ˈaˌdres

▶noun
1 the particulars of the place where someone lives or an organization is situated: they exchanged addresses and agreed to keep in touch. 
• the place itself: our officers went to the address. 
• Computing a string of characters that identifies a destination for email messages or the location of a website. 
• Computing a binary number that identifies a particular location in a data storage system or computer memory.
2 a formal speech delivered to an audience: delivered an address to the National Council of Teachers. 
• archaic a person's manner of speaking to someone else: his address was abrupt and unceremonious. 
• (addresses) archaic courteous or amorous approaches to someone: he persecuted her with his addresses.
3 dated skill, dexterity, or readiness: he rescued me with the most consummate address. 
▶verb [with object]
1 write the name and address of the intended recipient on (an envelope, letter, or package): I addressed my letter to him personally 
(as adjective addressed) : an addressed envelope.
2 speak to (a person or an assembly), typically in a formal way: she addressed an audience of the most important Shawnee chiefs 
they addressed themselves to my father. 
• (address someone as) name someone in a specified way when talking or writing: she addressed my father as “Mr. Stevens.” 
• (address something to) say or write remarks or a protest to (someone): address your complaints to the Board of Review.
3 think about and begin to deal with (an issue or problem): a fundamental problem has still to be addressed.
4 Golf take up one's stance and prepare to hit (the ball). 
PHRASES
form of address a name or title used in speaking or writing to a person of a specified rank or function: “Venerable” was the usual form of address for a priest at that time.DERIVATIVES addresser 
əˈdresər aˈdresər 
nounORIGIN Middle English (as a verb in the senses ‘set upright’ and ‘guide, direct,’ hence ‘write directions for delivery on’ and ‘direct spoken words to’): from Old French, based on Latin ad- ‘toward’ + directus (see direct). The noun is of mid 16th-century origin in the sense ‘act of approaching or speaking to someone.’
