advantage 
BrE ədˈvɑːntɪdʒ, AmE ədˈvæn(t)ɪdʒ 
noun 
① Countable(asset) 有利条件 yǒulì tiáojiàn to have the advantage of a good education 具有受过良好教育的有利条件 ‘computing experience an advantage’ (in job advertisement) “有计算机工作经验者优先” 
② Uncountable and countable(favourable position) 有利地位 yǒulì dìwèi to be at an or in a position of advantage 处于有利地位 the other team had the advantage of numbers 另一个队有人多的优势 to have an or the advantage over [somebody] 胜过某人 
③ Uncountable(beneficial aspect) 好处 hǎochu there is little advantage in having a car if you can't drive! 不会开车要汽车有什么用！ if you had your own car, it would give you the advantage of being more mobile 自己有车的话，出行会更方便 
④ Uncountable(profit, interest) 利益 lìyì to use [something] to one's advantage 利用某物 to turn [something] to one's (own) advantage 使某事变得对自己有利 it would be to your advantage to wait a while 等一会儿对你会有好处的 
⑤ Uncountable(use) 用处 yòngchu to take advantage of [something] 利用某事物 to take advantage of [somebody] (exploit) 占某人的便宜 
⑥ Uncountable(best effect) 最佳效果 zuì jiā xiàoguǒ to the best advantage 效果最佳地 the skirt showed off her legs to advantage 这条裙子突出了她双腿的优美线条 
⑦ Uncountable(in tennis) [局末平分后的] 优势分 yōushìfēn ‘advantage Federer’ “费德勒占先” 
advantage 
ədˈvan(t)ij

▶noun a condition or circumstance that puts one in a favorable or superior position: companies with a computerized database are at an advantage 
she had an advantage over her mother's generation. 
• the opportunity to gain something; benefit or profit: you could learn something to your advantage 
he saw some advantage in the proposal. 
• a favorable or desirable circumstance or feature; a benefit: the village's proximity to the town is an advantage. 
• Tennis a player's score in a game when they have won the first point after deuce (and will win the game if they win the next point). 
▶verb [with object] put in a favorable or more favorable position. 
PHRASES
have the advantage of dated be in a stronger position than. take advantage of
1 make unfair demands on (someone) who cannot or will not resist; exploit or make unfair use of for one's own benefit: people tend to take advantage of a placid nature. 
• dated (used euphemistically) seduce.
2 make good use of the opportunities offered by (something): take full advantage of the facilities available. to advantage in a way that displays or makes good use of the best aspects of something: her shoes showed off her legs to advantage 
plan your space to its best advantage. turn something to advantage (or to one's advantage) handle or respond to something in such a way as to benefit from it.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French avantage, from avant ‘in front,’ from late Latin abante (see advance) .
