advance 
BrE ədˈvɑːns, AmE ədˈvæns 

A.  intransitive verb 
① also Military (move forward) 前进 qiánjìn 
② (progress) «person, civilization» 进步 jìnbù ; «work» 取得进展 qǔdé jìnzhǎn to advance in one's career 在事业上取得进步 
③ (increase) «price, value, shares» 上涨 shàngzhǎng 
④ formal (be promoted) 得到晋升 dédào jìnshēng 
B.  transitive verb 
① (move forward) 使…向前移动 shǐ… xiàng qián yídòng ‹tape, film, cursor›; 把…拨快 bǎ… bō kuài ‹hands (of clock), date (on watch)›
② (move to earlier date) 提前 tíqián ‹time, date›
③ (improve) 增进 zēngjìn ‹understanding, knowledge›
④ Military 推进 tuījìn 
⑤ (in chess) 向前移动 xiàng qián yídòng ‹piece›
⑥ (promote) 提高 tígāo ‹interests›; 促进 cùjìn ‹cause›
⑦ (put forward) 提出 tíchū ‹idea, theory›
⑧ (lend, pay up front) 预支 yùzhī to advance [somebody] [something] 给某人预支某款额 
⑨ formal (increase) 提高 tígāo ‹price, interest rates›
C.  noun 
① also Military (forward movement) 推进 tuījìn with the advance of old age 随着年岁渐老 
② (improvement) 发展 fāzhǎn a great advance for democracy 民主的一大进步 recent advances in medicine 医学的新进展 
③ (sum of money) 预付款 yùfùkuǎn to ask for an advance on one's salary 要求预支薪金 
④ (increase) 增加 zēngjiā any advance on £100? (at auction etc.) 100英镑还有加价的吗？ 
D.  advances noun plural (overtures) 主动姿态 zhǔdòng zītài (sexual) 求爱 qiú'ài to make advances to [somebody] 勾引某人 
E.  in advance adverb phrase 预先 yùxiān a month in advance 提前一个月 here's £30 in advance 这是30英镑预付款 
F.  in advance of adverb phrase 比…提前 bǐ… tíqián she arrived half an hour in advance of the others 她比其他人早到半个小时 a thinker in advance of his time 一个超越其时代的思想家 
G.  adjectiveattributive 
① (given or done beforehand) 预先的 yùxiān de ‹payment, deposit›an advance warning system 预警系统 
② Military (sent on ahead) 先遣的 xiānqiǎn de 
advance 
ədˈvans

▶verb
1 [no object] move forward, typically in a purposeful way: the troops advanced on the capital 
she stood up and advanced toward him. 
• make or cause to make progress: our knowledge is advancing all the time 
[with object] : it was a chance to advance his own interests. 
• [with object] cause (an event) to occur at an earlier date than planned: I advanced the date of the meeting by several weeks. 
• [with object] put forward (a theory or suggestion): the hypothesis I wish to advance in this article. 
• (especially of shares of stock) increase in price: two stocks advanced for every one that fell.
2 [with two objects] lend (money) to (someone): the bank advanced them a loan. 
• pay (money) to (someone) before it is due: he advanced me a month's salary. 
▶noun
1 a forward movement: the rebels' advance on Madrid was well under way 
figurative : the advance of civilization. 
• a development or improvement: genuine advances in engineering techniques 
decades of great scientific advance. 
• an increase or rise in amount, value, or price: bond prices posted vigorous advances.
2 an amount of money paid before it is due or for work only partly completed: the author was paid a $250,000 advance 
I asked for an advance on next month's salary. 
• a loan: an advance from the bank.
3 (usually advances) an approach made to someone, typically with the aim of initiating a sexual encounter: women accused him of making improper advances. 
▶adjective done, sent, or supplied beforehand: advance notice 
advance payment. 
PHRASES
in advance ahead in time: you need to book weeks in advance. in advance of ahead of in time or space; before: we went on ahead in advance of the main group.DERIVATIVES advancer nounORIGIN Middle English: from Old French avance (noun), avancer (verb), from late Latin abante ‘in front,’ from ab ‘from’ + ante ‘before.’ The initial a- was erroneously assimilated to ad- in the 16th century.
