after 
BrE ˈɑːftə, AmE ˈæftər 

A.  conjunction 
① (in sequence of events) 在…以后 zài… yǐhòu after we left, we realized we had forgotten to say thank you 我们离开后才意识到忘了道谢 
② (as a result of the fact that, given that) 鉴于 jiànyú why did he do that after we'd warned him ? 我们警告过他，可他为什么还要那样做？ after you explained the situation, they didn't call the police 由于你解释了这个情况，他们才没有报警 
B.  preposition 
① (later in time than) 在…以后 zài… yǐhòu the day after tomorrow 后天 the week after next 下下周 shortly after
10 p.m. 晚上10点钟后不久 
② (behind) 在…后面 zài… hòumian to run after [somebody]/[something] 追赶某人/某物 please shut the gate after you 请随手关上大门 
③ (given) 由于 yóuyú I'll never forgive him after what he said 他竟然这样说，为此我永远也不会原谅他 
④ (in spite of) 尽管 jǐnguǎn after what she's been through, she's still interested? 经历了这些之后，她仍然有兴趣吗？ 
⑤ (in contrast to) 与…对照 yǔ… duìzhào it's boring here after Paris 与巴黎相比，这里很乏味 
⑥ (following in sequence, rank, precedence) 次于 cì yú after you! 您先请！ after you with the paper 报纸你看完后给我看 he's the tallest after Richard 他的个头仅次于理查德 
⑦ (in the direction of) 向着…的背影 xiàngzhe… de bèiyǐng ‘don't forget!’Mary called after her “别忘了！”玛丽在她背后喊道 
⑧ (in the wake of) 紧随…之后 jǐn suí… zhīhòu I'm not tidying up after you! 别让我跟在你屁股后面收拾！ 
⑨ (trying to find, catch, or obtain) 在追寻 zài zhuīxún the police are after him 警方正在追捕他 it's me he's after (to settle score) 他要报复的人是我 I wonder what she's after? 不知道她要得到什么？ I think he's after my job colloquial 我看他在觊觎我的工作 to be after [somebody] (sexually) 追求某人 
⑩ (at the farther side of) 在…的那边 zài… de nàbian ; (to the farther side of) 去…的那边 qù… de nàbian about 400 metres after the crossroads 十字路口过去约400米 
⑪ (stressing continuity, repetitiveness) [表示连续不断]day after day 日复一日 generation after generation 一代又一代 time after time 一再 it was one disaster after another 灾难接二连三 
⑫ (about) 关于 guānyú to ask after [somebody] 问候某人 
⑬ (in honour or memory of) 以…的名字 yǐ… de míngzi ‹monument, person›to name a child after [somebody] 以某人的名字给孩子取名 
⑭ (in the manner of) 以…为模仿对象 yǐ… wéi mófǎng duìxiàng it's a painting after Klee 这是一幅模仿克利的画 
⑮ AmE (when telling time) 晚于 wǎn yú it's twenty after eleven 现在是11点20分 
C.  adverb 
① (following specific time) 之后 zhīhòu the week/year after 下一周/年 we left the day after 我们于翌日离开 
② (following time or event) 以后 yǐhòu for weeks after 后来几个星期 right after 紧接着 
D.  afters noun plural BrE colloquial 餐后甜食 cān hòu tiánshí there's fruit salad for afters 甜点是水果色拉 
E.  after all adverb phrase 
① (when reinforcing point) 要知道 yào zhīdào after all, nobody forced you to leave 别忘了，没人强迫你离开 he should have paid: he suggested it after all 该付款的是他：本来就是他的提议 
② (when reassessing) 终究 zhōngjiū he decided not to stay after all 他毕竟还是决定不留下 
after 
ˈaftər

▶preposition
1 during the period of time following (an event): shortly after Christmas 
there's only one thing to do after an experience like that 
[as conjunction] : bathtime ended in a flood after the faucets were left running 
[as adverb] : Duke Frederick died soon after. 
• with a period of time rather than an event: after a while he returned. 
• in phrases indicating something happening continuously or repeatedly: day after day we kept studying. 
• North American (used in specifying a time) past: I strolled in about ten minutes after two. 
• during the time following the departure of (someone): she cooks for him and cleans up after him.
2 behind: she went out, shutting the door after her. 
• (with reference to looking or speaking) in the direction of someone who is moving further away: she stared after him.
3 in pursuit or quest of: chasing after something you can't have 
most of them are after money 
Jenny still yearned after him.
4 next to and following in order or importance: in their order of priorities health comes after housing 
x comes after y in the series.
5 in allusion to (someone or something with the same or a related name): they named her Pauline, after Barbara's mother. 
• in imitation of: a drawing after Millet's The Reapers.
6 concerning or about: she has asked after Iris's mother. 
▶adjective [attributive]
1 archaic later: he was sorry in after years.
2 Nautical nearer the stern: the after cabin. 
PHRASES
after all in spite of any indications or expectations to the contrary: I called and told her I couldn't come after all 
you are my counselor, after all. after hours after normal working or opening hours, typically those of bars and nightclubs: [as adverb] : she was going in to work after hours 
[as adjective] : an after-hours jazz club. after you a polite formula used to suggest that someone goes in front of or takes a turn before oneself: after you, Mr. Pritchard.ORIGIN Old English æfter, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch achter .
