age 
BrE eɪdʒ, AmE eɪdʒ 

A.  noun 
① (length of existence) 年龄 niánlíng to be/reach x years of age 是/到X岁 the building is of (a) great age 这建筑物历史悠久 to live to a great or ripe old age 活到高龄 at the age of
17 17岁时 act or be your age! 成熟点吧！ to look one's age 容貌与年龄相当 to feel one's age 感到自己上了年纪 at a tender age 在幼年 to come of age 达到法定年龄 to be under age 未到法定年龄 the age of consent 同意年龄 ［可与之发生性关系的法定年龄］
② (latter part of life) (of people) 老年 lǎonián (of mature wine, cheese etc.) 陈年 chénnián the wine will improve with age 葡萄酒年久味更醇 
③ (era) 时代 shídài to be of or at an age when … 处在…的时代 the age of space travel 太空旅行时代 through or throughout the ages 从古到今 
④ colloquial (long time) 长时间 cháng shíjiān it's ages since I've played tennis 我很久很久没打网球了 
B.  intransitive verb «person» 变老 biàn lǎo ; «building» 变旧 biàn jiù ; «wine» 变陈 biàn chén to age beyond one's years 显得比实际年龄老 he's ageing very well 他不显老 it is a good vintage and ages well 这酒酿制得好，且年久弥醇 
C.  transitive verb 
① (cause to grow, feel, or appear older) 使显老 shǐ xiǎn lǎo to age [somebody] ten years 使某人苍老10岁 shǐ mǒu rén cānglǎo
1 0 suì 
② (allow to mature) 使…变陈 shǐ… biàn chén ‹wine, whisky›
age 
āj

▶noun
1 the length of time that a person has lived or a thing has existed: he died from a heart attack at the age of 51 
his wife is the same age as Carla 
he must be nearly 40 years of age 
young people between the ages of
11 and 18. 
• a particular stage in someone's life: children of primary school age. 
• the latter part of life or existence; old age: with age this gland can become sluggish.
2 a distinct period of history: an age of technological growth 
a child of the television age. 
• Geology a division of time that is a subdivision of an epoch, corresponding to a stage in chronostratigraphy. 
• archaic a lifetime taken as a measure of time; a generation: Nestor is said to have lived three ages when he was ninety years old. 
• (ages/an age) informal a very long time: I haven't seen her for ages 
it would take an age to tell her everything. 
▶verb (ages, aging or British ageing, aged) [no object] grow old or older, especially visibly and obviously so: you haven't aged a lot 
the tiredness we feel as we age. 
• [with object] cause to grow, feel, or appear older: he even tried aging the painting with a spoonful of coffee. 
• (especially with reference to an alcoholic drink) mature or allow to mature: [no object] : the wine ages in open vats or casks. 
• [with object] determine how old (something) is: we didn't have a clue how to age these animals. 
PHRASES
act (or be) one's age [usually in imperative] behave in a manner appropriate to someone of one's age and not to someone much younger: “Act your age” is not advice to behave like an adolescent. come of age (of a person) reach adult status. 
• (of a movement or activity) become fully established: space travel will then finally come of age. of an age
1 old enough to be able or expected to do something: the sons are of an age to marry.
2 (of two or more people or things) of a similar age: the children all seemed of an age. through the ages throughout history.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French, based on Latin aetas, aetat-, from aevum ‘age, era.’
