agree 
BrE əˈɡriː, AmE əˈɡri 
A. intransitive verb 
① (hold same opinion) 同意 tóngyì to agree with [somebody]; 同意某人 to agree about or on [something]; 就某事达成一致 to agree to or with [something]; 同意某事 to agree to [somebody]('s) doing [something]; 允许某人做某事 
② (hold with, approve) to agree with; 赞成 zànchéng ‹belief, idea, practice›
③ (come to joint decision) 取得一致意见 qǔdé yīzhì yìjiàn they failed to agree 他们未能达成共识 the jury agreed in finding him guilty 陪审团一致裁定他有罪 to agree about [something]/doing [something]; 商定某事/做某事 
④ (tally) 相符 xiāngfú her account doesn't agree with yours 她的叙述与你的不符 the two theories agree (with each other) 这两种看法一致 
⑤ Linguistics [在数和人称等方面] 一致 yīzhì 
⑥ (suit) to agree with [somebody]; 适合某人 shìhé mǒu rén 
⑦ (be easily digested) 易消化 yì xiāohuà I like cheese, but it doesn't agree with me 我喜欢奶酪，但吃了会不适 
B.  transitive verb 
① (concur) 认同 rèntóng he agreed (that) he'd made a mistake 他承认犯了一个错误 
② (consent) to agree to do [something]; 同意做某事 tóngyì zuò mǒu shì 
③ (settle on, arrange) 商定 shāngdìng ‹time, venue, route, policy›; 谈妥 tántuǒ ‹terms, price›we can't agree where to go for our summer holidays 关于到哪里过暑假，我们各执己见 as agreed 按照约定 
④ (approve) 核准 hézhǔn ‹figures›; 批准 pīzhǔn ‹pay rise, plan, candidate›don't forget to agree the menu with the embassy 别忘了与大使馆核定菜单 
agree 
▶verb
1 I agree with you: concur, be of the same mind/opinion, see eye to eye, be in sympathy, be united, be as one man. ANTONYMS differ.
2 they had agreed to a ceasefire: consent to, assent to, acquiesce to, accept, approve, say yes to, give one's approval to, give the nod to; informal OK; formal accede to. ANTONYMS reject.
3 the plan and the drawing do not agree with each other: match (up), jibe, accord, correspond, chime in, conform, coincide, fit, tally, be in harmony/agreement, harmonize, be consistent/equivalent; informal square. ANTONYMS differ, contradict.
4 they agreed on a price: settle on, decide on, arrive at, work out, negotiate, reach an agreement on, come to terms on, strike a bargain on, make a deal on, shake hands on.
USAGE
agree Note the distinction between agreeing to something like a plan, scheme, or project and agreeing with somebody: I agree to the repayment schedule suggested; Danielle agrees with Eric that we should all go hiking on Saturday; humid weather does not agree with me. The construction agree with is also used regarding two things that go together: that story does not agree with the facts; the verb must agree with the noun in person and number.Usage notes show additional guidance on finer points of English usage.
