ahead 
BrE əˈhɛd, AmE əˈhɛd 

A.  adverb 
① (spatially) 向前 xiàng qián I'll run ahead and warn them 我要跑上前头去警告他们 we've sent Joe on ahead 我们已经派乔到前面去了 to send one's luggage on ahead 提前把行李送走 full speed ahead! Nautical 全速前进！ 
② (in time) 今后 jīnhòu the months ahead 以后几个月 to apply at least a year ahead 至少提前一年提出申请 we've got a lot of hard work ahead 我们往后还有很多艰苦工作要做 
③ figurative (in a better position) 领先 lǐngxiān (towards a better position) 向领先地位 xiàng lǐngxiān dìwèi he was slightly ahead on points 他点数上略占先 another goal put them ahead 又进一球使他们领先 to be
10 points ahead 领先10分 
④ figurative (more advanced) 先进 xiānjìn to be ahead in physics 在物理学方面领先 
B.  ahead of preposition phrase 
① (spatially) 在…的前面 zài… de qiánmian ‹person, vehicle›
② (earlier than) 早于 zǎo yú to be three seconds ahead of the next competitor 比下一名选手快了三秒 our rivals are one year ahead of us 我们的对手比我们早了一年 ahead of schedule/time 提前 
③ (in store for) 等待着 děngdàizhe they had a long drive ahead of them 他们还要开很长时间的车 there are difficult times ahead of us 我们面临着困难时期 
④ figurative (more advanced than) «student, business» 领先于 lǐngxiān yú she was always well ahead of the rest of the class 她总是遥遥领先班上其他同学 to be ahead of one's time 超越时代 their model was years ahead of its time 他们的型号比那个时代先进许多年 
ahead 
əˈhed 

əˈhed

▶adverb further forward in space; in the line of one's forward motion: he had to give his attention to the road ahead 
he was striding ahead toward the stream. 
• further forward in time; in advance; in the near future: he contemplated the day ahead 
we have to plan ahead. 
• in the lead: the Bucks were ahead by four 
he was slightly ahead on points. 
• higher in number, amount, or value than previously: profits were slightly ahead. 
PHRASES
ahead of in front of or before: she walked ahead of him along the corridor. 
• in store for; awaiting: we have a long drive ahead of us. 
• earlier than planned or expected: elimination of trade barriers came five years ahead of schedule. ahead of time in advance. ahead of one's (or its) time innovative and radical by the standards of the time; more characteristic of a later age. get ahead of oneself act or plan prematurely or overconfidently: I am getting ahead of myself; let's return to the beginning.ORIGIN mid 16th century (originally in nautical use): from a-2 ‘in, at’ + head .
