air 
BrE ɛː, AmE ɛr 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(substance) 空气 kōngqì warm air rises 暖气流上升 the sound of children's voices filled the air 到处都是孩子们说话的声音 I need some air 我要透透气 in the open air 在户外 to come up for air 浮出水面吸气 the air temperature was 16° below zero 气温是零下16度 
② Uncountable(atmosphere, sky) 天空 tiānkōng the birds of the air 飞禽 the heron took to the air 那只苍鹭飞上了天空 he threw the ball up into the air 他把球抛到空中 the battle was fought on the ground and in the air 战斗在地面和空中进行 air attacks/transport 空袭/空运 to travel by air 乘飞机旅行 most of the mail goes by air 大多数邮件都是航空邮寄 there's something in the air figurative 似乎要出事 to be up in the air figurative 悬而未决 to be walking or treading or floating on air figurative 得意扬扬 
③ UncountableRadio, Television to be or come or go on the air; 播放 bōfàng the series will be back on the air in January 该系列节目将在1月份重新开播 the minister went on (the) air to reassure the public 部长发表了广播讲话，以打消公众的疑虑 to be or go off the air; 停止播放 to take off the air; 停播…的节目 ‹broadcaster, interviewee› 停播 tíng bō ‹programme›
④ Countable(impression) 样子 yàngzi with a knowing air 以心照不宣的神态 phrases like these have a quaint, old-fashioned air 像这样的短语显得古朴有趣 with an air of indifference/innocence 显示出漠不关心/天真的样子 an air of mystery surrounds the project 这个项目充满了神秘感 she has a certain air about her 她有某种魅力 
⑤ CountableMusic dated 曲调 qǔdiào Bach's Air on a G String 巴赫的《G弦上的咏叹调》 
B.  airs noun plural 矫揉造作 jiǎo róu zào zuò to give oneself airs 摆架子 airs and graces 装腔作势 
C.  transitive verb 
① (make dry) 晾干 liànggān ‹clothes, sheets›
② (make fresh) 使…通风 shǐ… tōngfēng ‹room, house›fold back the duvet to air the bed 叠起羽绒被让床透气 
③ (express) 表达 biǎodá ‹opinions, feelings›; 诉说 sùshuō ‹grievances›; 卖弄 màinong ‹knowledge›
④ Radio, Television (broadcast) 播放 bōfàng 
D.  intransitive verb 
① (become dry) «clothes, sheets» 晾干 liànggān she put the sheets in front of the fire to air 她将被单放在火炉前烘干 
② (become fresh) «room, building» 通风 tōngfēng 
③ (be broadcast) 播出 bōchū 
air 
er

▶noun
1 the invisible gaseous substance surrounding the earth, a mixture mainly of oxygen and nitrogen. 
• air regarded as necessary for breathing: the air was stale 
the doctor told me to get some fresh air. 
• the free or unconfined space above the surface of the earth: he celebrated by tossing his hat high in the air. 
• [usually as modifier] referring to the use of aircraft: air traffic 
all goods must come in by air. 
• the earth's atmosphere as a medium for transmitting radio waves: radio stations have successfully sold products over the air. 
• air considered as one of the four elements in ancient philosophy and in astrology (associated with the signs of Gemini, Aquarius, and Libra). 
• a breeze or light wind. See also light air. 
• air conditioning. 
• a jump off the ground on a snowboard.
2 an impression of a quality or manner given by someone or something: she answered with a faint air of boredom 
he leaned over with a confidential air. 
• (airs) an annoyingly affected and condescending manner: he began to put on airs and think he could boss us around.
3 Music a tune or short melodious composition, typically a song. 
▶verb
1 [with object] express (an opinion or grievance) publicly: a meeting in which long-standing grievances were aired. 
• broadcast (a program) on radio or television: the programs were aired on India's state TV network. 
• archaic parade or show (something) ostentatiously: airing a snowy hand and signet ring.
2 [with object] expose (a room) to the open air in order to ventilate it: the window sashes were lifted regularly to air the room. 
• (air oneself) archaic go out in the fresh air. 
PHRASES
airs and graces derogatory an affectation of superiority. by air in an aircraft: all goods must come in by air. in the air noticeable all around; becoming prevalent: I smell violence in the air. on (or off) the air being (or not being) broadcast on radio or television. take the air go out of doors. up in the air (of a plan or issue) still to be settled; unresolved: the fate of the power station is up in the air. walk on air feel elated.ORIGIN Middle English (in sense
1 of the noun): from Old French air, from Latin aer, from Greek aēr, denoting the gas. Sense
2 of the noun is from French air, probably from Old French aire ‘site, disposition,’ from Latin ager, agr- ‘field’ (influenced by sense 1). Sense
3 of the noun comes from Italian aria (see aria) .
