all 
BrE ɔːl, AmE ɔl 

A.  pronoun 
① (everything, the whole amount) 全部 quánbù that's all 就这些了 to risk all 孤注一掷 all or nothing 要么全有，要么全无 when all is said and done 说到底 all in good time! 不用急！ we're doing all (that) we can 我们正尽力而为 it's not all (that) it should be «performance, service, efficiency» 不尽人意 all's well that ends well 结果好就一切都好 I ate it all 我全吃光了 
② (the only thing) 唯一 wéiyī that's all I want 那是我唯一想要的 all I know is (that) … 我只知道… that's all we need! ironic 我们才不要呢！ 
③ (everyone) 人人 rénrén (emphasizing unanimity or entirety) 全体 quántǐ all but a few were released 除了少数几个，其他人都被释放了 one and all 所有人 thank you, one and all 谢谢大家 
B.  determiner 
① (each one of) 一切的 yīqiè de (the whole of) 全部的 quánbù de all kinds of people 各种各样的人 it wasn't bad, all things considered 总的来看，这事还不坏 all day/evening/year 整天/整晚/一年到头 alcohol, drugs, and all that sort of thing 酒精、毒品以及诸如此类的东西 all London wondered what would happen next 全伦敦的人都想知道接下来会发生什么事 
② (total) 完全的 wánquán de with all possible speed 以尽可能快的速度 in all innocence/seriousness 十分天真/一本正经地 
③ (any) 任何的 rènhé de beyond all expectations 完全出乎意料 beyond all doubt 毫无疑问 
C.  adverb 
① (completely) 完全地 wánquán de all alone, all on one's own 独自一人 to be all wet 湿透 all in one piece 安然无恙 he's forgotten all about us! 他把我们忘得一干二净！ it's all one or the same to me 对我来说都一样 if it's all the same to you, I'd prefer coffee 如果你无所谓，我想要咖啡 all there colloquial 神志正常 he's not all there 他呆呆的 to be all go BrE colloquial 忙得要命 that's all very well, that's all well and good 那好倒是好 it's all very well for him to talk 他说说当然容易 
② (nothing but) 只有 zhǐyǒu to be all legs 腿很长 to be all smiles 满面笑容 to be all thumbs 笨手笨脚 to be all ears 全神贯注地听 he was all sympathy 他充满同情 
③ Sport 每一方 měi yī fāng (they are) six all （他们的比分是）六平 
D.  noun 一切 yīqiè to give one's all for [somebody]/[something]; 为某人/某事物献出一切 
E.  all along adverb phrase 一直 yīzhí it was in my pocket all along 它一直在我口袋里 
F.  all at once adverb phrase 
① (simultaneously) 同时 tóngshí don't eat it all at once! 别把它一下子吃光！ 
② (suddenly) 突然 tūrán all at once a bell rang 突然响起了铃声 
G.  all but adverb phrase 几乎 jīhū the party was all but over when we arrived 我们到的时候，聚会已经快要结束了 
H.  all for preposition phrase 完全赞成 wánquán zànchéng I'm all for women joining the army 我完全支持妇女参军 
I.  all in all adverb phrase 总的来说 zǒng de lái shuō 
J.  all of adverb phrase 足足 zúzú [常作反语，用于说话者认为很小的量]it cost all of £70 它花了整整70英镑呢 
K.  all round adverb phrase 
① (in every respect) 在各方面 zài gè fāngmiàn 
② (to or for everyone) 对在场的每个人 duì zàichǎng de měi gè rén congratulations all round! 祝贺各位！ 
L.  all that adverb phrase 非常 fēicháng she's not all that happy 她不太高兴 it's not as far as all that 没那么远 
M.  all the more adverb phrase 更加 gèngjiā to laugh all the more 笑得更厉害 all the more difficult 更加困难 
N.  all the same adverb phrase (even so) 即便如此 jíbiàn rúcǐ (anyway) 无论如何 wúlùn rúhé we had to go all the same 我们不得已还是去了 thanks all the same, but I've something else on tonight 我照样要多谢你，但今晚我有些事情要办 
O.  all too adverb phrase 过于 guòyú ‹accurate, easy, widespread›all too soon we realized the awful truth 很快我们就意识到了这个可怕的真相 
P.  and all adverb phrase 
① (included) 包括在内 bāokuò zàinèi he jumped into the river clothes and all 他连衣服也没脱就跳进河中 
② BrE colloquial (as well) 也 yě I'm freezing! — yeah, me and all! 我都快冻僵了！──对，我也是！ 
Q.  at all adverb phrase [表示完全]not at all; (acknowledging thanks) 别客气 (answering query) 一点也不 I don't agree at all 我完全不同意 if he goes at all 万一他真要走的话 seldom if at all 非常难得 
R.  for all preposition phrase 
① (despite) 尽管 jǐnguǎn for all its clarity of style, the book is not easy reading 这本书尽管行文清晰，却不容易读懂 
② (as far as) [表示对某人不重要或无所谓]for all [somebody] knows 说不定与某人所知相反 for all [somebody] cares 与某人无关 you can do what you like for all I care 你可以随心所欲，我才不管呢 
S.  in all adverb phrase 总共 zǒnggòng 
T.  of all preposition phrase 
① (in rank) 在所有…之中 zài suǒyǒu… zhī zhōng the last question was the easiest of all 最后那道题是最容易的 first of all, let's say hello to Sarah 首先让我们向萨拉问好 
② (emphatic) 在所有的…当中偏偏 zài suǒyǒu de… dāngzhōng piānpiān I didn't think you, of all people, would become a vegetarian! 我真没想到众人之中偏偏你会成为素食者！ I've locked myself out! of all the stupid things to do! 我把自己锁在门外了！居然做出这等蠢事！ 
all 
ôl

▶predet.det., & pronoun used to refer to the whole quantity or extent of a particular group or thing: [as predeterminer] : all the people I met 
she left all her money to him 
[as determiner] : 10% of all cars sold 
he slept all day 
[as pronoun] : four bedrooms, all with balconies 
carry all of the blame 
the men are all bearded. 
• [determiner] any whatever: assured beyond all doubt 
he denied all knowledge. 
• [determiner] used to emphasize the greatest possible amount of a quality: they were in all probability completely unaware 
with all due respect. 
• informal dominated by a particular feature or characteristic: an eleven-year-old string bean, all elbows and knees. 
• [pronoun with clause] the only thing (used for emphasis): all I want is to be left alone. 
• [pronoun] (used to refer to surroundings or a situation in general) everything: all was well 
it was all very strange. 
• US dialect consumed; finished; gone: the cake is all. 
▶adverb
1 used for emphasis. 
• completely: dressed all in black 
she's been all around the world 
all by himself. 
• consisting entirely of: all leather varsity jacket.
2 (in games) used after a number to indicate an equal score: after extra time it was still two all. 
▶noun the whole of one's energy or interest: giving their all for what they believed. 
PHRASES
all along all the time; from the beginning: she'd known all along. all and sundry everyone: insolent drivers crying to all and sundry to get out of the way. all around (also British all round)
1 in all respects: it was a bad day all around.
2 for or by each person: drinks all around 
good acting all around. all but
1 very nearly: the subject was all but forgotten.
2 all except: we have support from all but one of the networks. all comers chiefly informal anyone who chooses to take part in an activity, typically a competition: the champion took on all comers. all for informal strongly in favor of: I was all for tolerance. all in 
ˌôl ˈin 
informal exhausted: he was all in by halftime. all in all everything considered; on the whole: all in all it's been a good year. all kinds (or sorts) of many different kinds of: how to install paneling on all kinds of walls. all manner of see manner. all of as much as (typically used ironically of a quantity considered small by the speaker): the show lasted all of six weeks. all of a sudden see sudden. all out 
ˌôlˈout 
using all one's strength or resources: going all out to win 
[as adjective] : an all-out effort. all over 
ˌôl ˈōvər 

1 completely finished: it's all over between us.
2 informal everywhere: there were bodies all over. 
• with reference to all parts of the body: I was shaking all over.
3 informal typical of the person mentioned: that's our management all over!
4 informal effusively attentive to (someone): James was all over her. all over the place (or map) 
ˌôl ˈōvər 
informal everywhere: we've been all over the place looking for you. 
• in a state of disorder: my hair was all over the place.all's well that ends well proverb if the outcome of a situation is happy, this compensates for any previous difficulty or unpleasantness. all that —— see that. all the same see same. all the —— see the ( sense 6). all there [usually with negative] informal in full possession of one's mental faculties: he's not quite all there. all the time see time. all together all in one place or in a group; all at once: 5,000 people all together 
they arrived all together. Compare with altogether. all told 
ˌôl ˈtōld 
in total: they tried a dozen times all told. all the way informal without limit or reservation: I'm with you all the way. See also go all the way at way. —— and all used to emphasize something additional that is being referred to: she threw her coffee over him, mug and all. 
• informal as well: it must hit him hard, being so young and all. at all [with negative or in questions] (used for emphasis) in any way; to any extent: I don't like him at all 
did he suffer at all? be all about —— informal be focused on or interested in (a particular thing): school has become my refuge and I'm all about being the perfect student. be all one to someone make no difference to someone: simple cases or hard cases, it's all one to me. be all that US informal be very attractive or good: he thinks he's all that—yeah, God's gift. be all up with see up. be all very well informal used to express criticism or rejection of a favorable or consoling remark: your proposal is all very well in theory, but in practice it will not pay. for all —— in spite of ——: for all its clarity and style, the book is not easy reading. in all in total number; altogether: there were about 5,000 people in all. of all see of. on all fours on hands and knees or (of an animal) on all four legs rather than just the hind ones: Frankie scuttled away on all fours. one and all see one. ORIGIN Old English all, eall, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch al and German all .
