allow 
BrE əˈlaʊ, AmE əˈlaʊ 
transitive verb 
① (permit) 允许 yǔnxǔ (authorize) 准许 zhǔnxǔ passengers are not allowed to talk to the driver 乘客不得与司机交谈 we're not allowed visitors 我们不可以会客 the government has allowed the situation to get worse 政府听任局势恶化 I'm going to allow myself two more chocolates! 我让自己多吃两块巧克力！ allow me! 让我来！ if you will allow me to continue! 请让我把话说完！ 
② (admit) «organization» 允许…进入 yǔnxǔ… jìnrù the club's rules do not allow male members 俱乐部规定不接收男会员 pets are not allowed 宠物不得入内 
③ (accept, concede) 认可 rènkě I'll allow that this isn't always the case 我承认情况并不总是这样的 the referee allowed the goal 裁判判得分有效 the insurance company allowed the claim 保险公司同意理赔 
④ (enable) 使成为可能 shǐ chéngwéi kěnéng increased funding would allow the company to be more adventurous in its productions 投资增加将使该公司能够大胆地扩大生产 the improved rail service allows easier connections to the main line to London 铁路服务得到了改进，经由干线往伦敦更方便了 
⑤ (allocate) 分配 fēnpèi (set aside) 留出 liúchū you ought to allow more material for long sleeves 长袖子得预备更多的布料 to allow [somebody] a discount of £50 给某人优惠50英镑 to allow a margin for error 留出误差余地 PHRASAL VERBS allow for transitive verb[allow for something] 将…考虑在内 jiāng… kǎolǜ zài nèi ‹delay, mistake, cost›have you allowed for shrinkage? 你考虑到缩水了吗？ allow of transitive verb[allow of something] formal 容许…的发生 róngxǔ… de fāshēng 
allow 
əˈlou

▶verb [with object]
1 
• [with object and infinitive] give (someone) permission to do something: the dissident was allowed to leave the country. 
• [with two objects] permit (someone) to have (something): he was allowed his first sip of Scotch and soda. 
• permit (someone) to enter a place or go in a particular direction: the river was patrolled and few people were allowed across. 
• admit (an event or activity) as legal or acceptable: a plan to allow Sunday shopping 
a reservoir with no hunting or overnight camping allowed.
2 give the necessary time or opportunity for: they agreed to a ceasefire to allow talks with the government 
[with object and infinitive] : he stopped for a moment to allow his eyes to adjust 
[no object] dated : my household duties were too many to allow of a visit to the hospital. 
• [no object] (allow for) make provision or provide scope for (something): the house was demolished to allow for road widening. 
• [no object] (allow for) take (something) into consideration when making plans or calculations: income rose by
11 percent allowing for inflation. 
• provide or set aside (a specified amount of something) for a specific purpose: allow an hour or so for driving.
3 [reporting verb] admit the truth of; concede: [with clause] : he allowed that the penalty appeared too harsh for the crime 
[with direct speech] : “Could happen,” she allowed indifferently. 
• [with clause] North American informal or dialect assert; be of the opinion: Lincoln allowed that he himself could never support the man. ORIGIN Middle English (originally in the senses ‘commend, sanction’ and ‘assign as a right’): from Old French alouer, from Latin allaudare ‘to praise,’ reinforced by medieval Latin allocare ‘to place’ (see allocate) .
