alternative 
BrE ɔːlˈtəːnətɪv, ɒlˈtəːnətɪv, AmE ɔlˈtərnədɪv 

A.  adjective 
① attributive (other) 可供替代的 kě gōng tìdài de ‹plan, route, method, suggestion›
② (unconventional) 非传统的 fēichuántǒng de ‹art form, lifestyle›alternative sources of energy 非传统能源 an alternative culture 另类文化 
B.  noun 
① (specified option) 选择 xuǎnzé the alternative is to wait and see 要么就是等着看事态的发展 you have the alternative of marrying or remaining a bachelor 你要么结婚，要么继续做单身汉 
② (possible option) 可能的选择 kěnéng de xuǎnzé there are several alternatives to surgery 除外科手术之外还有其他几种选择 to choose between two alternatives 在两者中作出选择 to have no alternative but to do [something] 除了做某事之外别无选择 
alternative 
ôlˈtərnədiv

▶adjective [attributive] (of one or more things) available as another possibility: the various alternative methods for resolving disputes 
the alternative definition of democracy as popular power. 
• (of two things) mutually exclusive: the facts fit two alternative scenarios. 
• relating to behavior that is considered unconventional and is often seen as a challenge to traditional norms: an alternative lifestyle 
they have one foot in alternative music and the other in rock. 
▶noun one of two or more available possibilities: audiocassettes are an interesting alternative to reading 
she had no alternative but to break the law. ORIGIN mid 16th century (in the sense ‘alternating, alternate’): from French alternatif, -ive or medieval Latin alternativus, from Latin alternare ‘interchange’ (see alternate) . usage:
1 Alternate can be a verb, noun, or adjective, while alternative can be a noun or adjective. In both American and British English, the adjective alternate means ‘every other’ ( there will be a dance on alternate Saturdays) and the adjective alternative means ‘available as another choice’ ( an alternative route; alternative medicine; alternative energy sources). In American usage, however, alternate can also be used to mean ‘available as another choice’: an alternate plan called for construction to begin immediately rather than waiting for spring. Likewise, a book club may offer an ‘alternate selection’ as an alternative to the main selection.
2 Some traditionalists maintain, from an etymological standpoint, that you can have only two alternatives (from the Latin alter ‘other (of two); the other’) and that uses of more than two alternatives are erroneous. Such uses are, however, normal in modern standard English.
