and 
BrE ənd, (ə)n, and, AmE ænd, (ə)n 
conjunction 
① (joining words or clauses) 和 hé ham and eggs 火腿蛋 a knife and fork 一副刀叉 she shouted and screamed 她大喊大叫 we were hungry and thirsty 我们又饥又渴 and all that colloquial 等等 education and all that 教育之类的事 and so on or forth 等等 and that BrE colloquial 等等 did you miss me? — and how! 你想我了吗？──当然啦！ and/or 和/或 she goes swimming in the sea summer and winter 她不论冬夏都到海里游泳 
② (indicating one person or thing) [连接双重身份]my friend and colleague Joe Brown 我的朋友兼同事乔布朗 
③ (used in numbers) [连接数字]four hundred and sixty-two 四百六十二 five and a quarter 五又四分之一 
④ (plus) 加 jiā
2 and
2 is or makes
4 2加2等于4 
⑤ (then) 然后 ránhòu I got up and opened the door 我起来开了门 
⑥ (as a result) 因此 yīncǐ tell the truth and I'll believe you 你说实话我就相信你 
⑦ (but) 但是 dànshì you like classical music and I like rock 你喜欢古典音乐，而我喜欢摇滚乐 
⑧ (with comparatives) [表示程度加强]it got worse and worse 越来越糟了 
⑨ (expressing continuation) [表示持续的动作]I waited and waited 我等了又等 
⑩ (expressing contrast) [表示对比]there are cities and cities 城市各有不同 
⑪ (for emphasis) [表示强调]we got there nice and early 我们早早地到了那里 
⑫ (in order to) 为了 wèile to come/go and do [something]; 来/去做某事 
⑬ (express surprise or annoyance) [用于go之后，表示惊讶或恼怒]to go and do [something]; 居然做某事 he went and lost my pen 他竟然把我的钢笔弄丢了 
⑭ (or) 或 huò I haven't got pen and paper 我没有纸笔 
⑮ (introducing comment) 而且 érqiě [引出附加评论或感叹语]and he didn't even say thank you! 而且他竟然没说声谢谢！ 
⑯ (introducing question) 那么 nàme [引出与前文相关的提问]I found the letter in her bag — and did you open it? 我在她的包里找到了这封信──那么你拆开了吗？ I'm the new teacher — and? 我是新来的老师──然后呢？ 
⑰ (introducing new topic) [表示转入新话题]and now the main point on the agenda 下面谈谈议程的要点 
and 
and (ə)n

▶conjunction
1 used to connect words of the same part of speech, clauses, or sentences that are to be taken jointly: bread and butter 
red and black tiles 
they can read and write 
a hundred and fifty. 
• used to connect two clauses when the second happens after the first: he turned around and walked out 
she washed and dried her hair. 
• used to connect two clauses, the second of which results from the first: do that once more, and I'll skin you alive. 
• connecting two identical comparatives, to emphasize a progressive change: getting better and better 
he felt more and more like an outsider. 
• connecting two identical words, implying great duration or great extent: I cried and cried 
it takes hours and hours. 
• used to connect two identical words to indicate that things of the same name or class have different qualities: all human conduct is determined or caused—but there are causes and causes. 
• used to connect two numbers to indicate that they are being added together: six and four make ten. 
• archaic used to connect two numbers, implying succession: a line of men marching two and two.
2 used to introduce an additional comment or interjection: if it came to a choice—and this was the worst thing—she would turn her back on her parents 
they believe they are descended from him, and quite right, too. 
• used to introduce a question in connection with what someone else has just said: “I found the letter in her bag.” “And did you steam it open?” 
• (especially in broadcasting) used to introduce a statement about a new topic: and now to the dessert.
3 informal used after some verbs and before another verb to indicate intention, instead of “to”: I would try and do what he said 
come and see me. 
▶noun (usually AND) Logic & Electronics a Boolean operator that gives the value one if and only if all the operands are one, and otherwise has a value of zero. 
• (also AND gate) a circuit that produces an output signal only when signals are received simultaneously through all input connections. 
PHRASES
and/or either or both of two stated possibilities: audio and/or video components.ORIGIN Old English and, ond, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch en and German und . usage:
1 It is still widely taught and believed that conjunctions such as and (and also but and because) should not be used to start a sentence, the argument being that a sentence starting with and expresses an incomplete thought and is therefore incorrect. Writers down the centuries have readily ignored this advice, however, using and to start a sentence, typically for rhetorical effect: What are the government's chances of winning in court? And what are the consequences?
2 A small number of verbs—notably try, come, and go—can be followed by ‘and’ with another verb, as in sentences like we're going to try and explain it to them or why don't you come and see the film? Such structures in these verbs correspond to the use of the infinitive ‘to,’ as in we're going to try to explain it to them or why don't you come to see the film? Since these structures are grammatically odd and, though extremely common, are mainly restricted to informal English, they are regarded as wrong by some and should be avoided in formal standard English.
3 On whether it is more correct to say both the boys and the girls or both the boys and girls, see usage at both.4 Where a number of items are separated by and, the following verb needs to be in the plural: see usage at or1 .
