angel 
BrE ˈeɪndʒ(ə)l, AmE ˈeɪndʒəl 
noun 
① literal 天使 tiānshǐ to rush in where angels fear to tread 鲁莽行事 to be on the side of the angels 站在道义一方 
② figurative (person) 天使 tiānshǐ [指美丽、纯真或善良的人]to sing like an angel 唱得婉转动听 be an angel and answer the phone! 乖，去接电话！ don't be deceived! she's no angel! 当心受骗！她可不是善茬！ 
angel 
ˈānjəl

▶noun
1 a spiritual being believed to act as an attendant, agent, or messenger of God, conventionally represented in human form with wings and a long robe: God sent an angel to talk to Gideon 
the Angel of Death 
figurative : Ella, ever the angel of mercy, organized the girls into baking cookies. 
• an attendant spirit, especially a benevolent one: there was an angel watching over me. See also guardian angel. 
• in traditional Christian angelology, a being of the lowest order of the celestial hierarchy.
2 a person of exemplary conduct or virtue: women were then seen as angels or whores 
I know I'm no angel. 
• used in similes or comparisons to refer to a person's outstanding beauty, qualities, or abilities: you sang like an angel. 
• used in approval when a person has been or is expected to be kind or willing to oblige: be an angel and let us come in. 
• used as a term of endearment: I miss you too, angel.
3 (also angel investor or business angel) a person who supports a business financially, typically one who invests private capital in a small or newly established enterprise: the longer it takes you to get your product into the marketplace, the longer it will be until the angels get their money back. 
• a financial backer of a theatrical production: every year we raise the money for the next season and we are always looking for an angel.
4 historical an English coin minted between 1470 and 1634 and bearing the figure of the archangel Michael killing a dragon.
5 (angels) informal an aircraft's altitude (often used with a numeral indicating thousands of feet): we rendezvous at angels nine.
6 informal an unexplained radar echo. 
PHRASES
the angel in the house chiefly ironic a woman who is completely devoted to her husband and family. [phrase from a poem by Coventry Patmore.] on the side of the angels on the side of what is right and just.ORIGIN Old English engel, ultimately via ecclesiastical Latin from Greek angelos ‘messenger’; superseded in Middle English by forms from Old French angele .
