another 
BrE əˈnʌðə, AmE əˈnəðər 

A.  determiner 
① (an additional) 再一的 zài yī de would you like another drink? 想再喝一杯吗？ they want to have another child 他们想再要个孩子 in another five months 再过5个月 we have received yet another letter/complaint 我们又收到一封信/一起投诉 
② (a different) 另一的 lìng yī de another time 下次 he has another job/girlfriend now 他现在有新工作/新女友了 that's quite another matter 那完全是另一回事 to put it another way 换言之 
③ (a new) 一个类似的 yī gè lèisì de she'll be another Garbo 她将成为又一个嘉宝 
B.  pronoun 
① (an additional) 再一 zài yī can I have another? 我能再来一份吗？ it's a bill — oh, not another! 这是账单──𡂿，别又来一张！ 
② (a different one) 另一 lìng yī to go from one house to another 挨家挨户地去 she loves another literary 她另有所爱 another of the witnesses said that … 另一位证人说… one after another 一个接一个地 she tried on one hat after another 她试了一顶又一顶帽子 for one reason or another 由于某种原因 of one kind or sort or type or another 各种不同的 in one way or another 以某种方式 ignorance is one thing, vulgarity is quite another 无知是一回事，庸俗则完全是另一回事 
③ (a new one) (person) 类似的人 lèisì de rén (thing) 类似的事物 lèisì de shìwù there'll never be another like him 不会再有像他那样的人了 
another 
əˈnəT͟Hər

▶det. & pronoun
1 used to refer to an additional person or thing of the same type as one already mentioned or known about; one more; a further: [as determiner] : have another drink 
I didn't say another word 
[as pronoun] : they have two practices, one in the morning and another in the afternoon 
she was to become another of his stars. 
• [usually as determiner] used with a proper name to indicate someone or something's similarity to the person or event specified: they said she was another Jennifer Aniston 
this will not be another Vietnam.
2 used to refer to a different person or thing from one already mentioned or known about: [as determiner] : come back another day 
his wife left him for another man 
[as pronoun] : moving from one place to another 
it is one thing to formulate policies and quite another to implement them. 
• [determiner] used to refer to someone sharing an attribute in common with the person already mentioned: his kiss with another man caused a tabloid rumpus. ORIGIN Middle English: as an other until the 16th century.
