answer 
BrE ˈɑːnsə, AmE ˈænsər 
A. noun 
① (reply) 回答 huídá to give an answer 作出答复 she's too cheeky; she always has an answer! 她脸皮太厚，总有说辞！ there was no answer (on phone) 没人接 (at door) 没人应门 a written answer, an answer in writing 书面回复 a ready answer 不假思索的回答 I won't take no for an answer! 不许拒绝！ there's no answer to that! 对此无话可说！ 
② (solution) 解决办法 jiějué bànfǎ this could be the answer to all our problems 这可能会是解决我们所有问题的办法 the right/wrong answer 正确/错误的答案 to have or know all the answers （自以为）什么都知道 
③ Law 答辩 dábiàn an answer to a charge 对指控的辩解 
B.  transitive verb 
① (reply to) 回答 huídá ‹person, question›; 回应 huíyìng ‹attack, criticism›he must answer the invitation 他必须回复请帖 to answer that … 回答说… to answer the door or bell 应门 to answer the telephone 接电话 
② Law 答辩 dábiàn to answer a charge 对指控进行辩解 his lawyer claimed there was no case to answer 他的律师宣称无须答辩 
③ (satisfy) 满足 mǎnzú ‹needs›; 符合 fúhé ‹purpose›
C.  intransitive verb 
① (respond) 回应 huíyìng to answer to the name of … 名叫… 
② (be suitable) 符合 fúhé to answer to the description (of [somebody]/[something]) 符合（对某人/某物的）描述 PHRASAL VERBS answer back A. intransitive verb 
① (defend oneself) 辩解 biànjiě 
② (respond cheekily) 顶嘴 dǐngzuǐ 
B.  transitive verb[answer somebody back] 和…顶嘴 hé… dǐngzuǐ answer for transitive verb[answer for something] 
① (be responsible for) 对…负责 duì… fùzé he will have to answer for his crimes one day 总有一天，他得为自己的罪行负责 
② (speak for) 代表…讲话 dàibiǎo… jiǎnghuà (speak in support of) 证明 zhèngmíng I can answer for the truth of what she says 我可以证明她的话属实 answer to transitive verb[answer to somebody] 向…负责 xiàng… fùzé all the sales assistants answer directly to the store manager 所有售货员都向商店经理直接负责 
answer 
▶noun
1 her answer was unequivocal: reply, response, rejoinder, reaction; retort, riposte; informal comeback. ANTONYMS question.
2 a new filter is the answer: solution, remedy, key.
▶verb
1 Steve was about to answer: reply, respond, make a rejoinder, rejoin; retort, riposte, return.
2 she has yet to answer the charges: rebut, defend oneself against.
3 a man answering this description: match, fit, correspond to, be similar to.
4 we're trying to answer the needs of our audience: satisfy, meet, fulfill, fill, measure up to.
5 I answer to the commissioner: report to, work for/under, be subordinate to, be accountable to, be answerable to, be responsible to.
6 he will answer for his crime: pay, be punished, suffer; make amends, make reparation, atone.
7 the government has a lot to answer for: be accountable, be responsible, be liable, take the blame; informal take the rap.
