any 
BrE ˈɛni, AmE ˈɛni 

A.  determiner 
① (in questions and conditional sentences) 一些 yīxiē (with negative or implied negative) 丝毫的 sīháo de is there any tea/bread? 有茶/面包吗？ if I can help in any way 如果我能帮上忙的话 he hasn't got any money/food 他一点儿钱/吃的也没有 we want to avoid any trouble 我们根本不想惹麻烦 he managed it without any difficulty 他毫不费力地完成了这件事 
② (in positive sentences) 任何的 rènhé de any hat/pen will do 什么帽子/笔都行 he might return at any time 他随时都可能回来 any one 任何一个 rènhé yī gè any number or quantity or amount of … 大量的… there are any number of reasons to be sceptical about it 有很多理由怀疑它 
③ (ordinary) 一般的 yībān de not just any …; 不寻常的… it isn't just any day: it's my birthday 今天不是一般的日子：是我的生日 
B.  pronoun 
① (with negative or implied negative) 丝毫 sīháo he hasn't got any 他一点儿也没有 she doesn't like any of them 她不喜欢他们中的任何一个 I've spent hardly any of the money 这钱我几乎一点儿也没花 he returned without any of the others 就他一个人回来了 [somebody] isn't having any of it (is not interested) 某人对此毫无兴趣 (does not agree) 某人不同意这点 
② (in questions and conditional sentences) 一些 yīxiē did any of you see it? 你们有人见过它吗？ I'd like some tea, if you have any 如果你有茶的话，我想喝一口 very few, if any, knew the truth 几乎没人知道真相 
③ (in positive sentences) 任何一个 rènhé yī gè take any you like 你喜欢哪个就拿哪个 any of …; …中的任何一个 any of those pens will do 那些笔随便哪一支都行 
C.  adverb 丝毫 sīháo is he feeling any better? 他身体好些了吗？ I can't leave any later than
6 o'clock 我绝对不能晚于6点离开 I don't like him any more than you do 我和你一样不喜欢他 you don't love me any more or longer 你不再爱我了 if you don't say anything, no one will be any the wiser 如果你什么都不说，谁也不会知道 that doesn't help me any especially AmE colloquial 那对我没用 it didn't bother him any especially AmE colloquial 他根本不在乎 
any 
ˈenē

▶det. & pronoun
1 [usually with negative or in questions] used to refer to one or some of a thing or number of things, no matter how much or many: [as determiner] : I don't have any choice 
do you have any tips to pass on? 
[as pronoun] : someone asked him for a match, but Joe didn't have any 
you don't know any of my friends 
if there is any left, throw it away. 
• [as pronoun] anyone: they are unlikely to be known by name to any but specialists.
2 whichever of a specified class might be chosen: [as determiner] : these constellations are visible at any hour of the night 
any fool knows that 
[as pronoun] : the illness may be due to any of several causes. 
▶adverb [usually with negative or in questions, as submodifier] (used for emphasis) at all; in some degree: he wasn't any good at basketball 
why look any further? 
no one would be any the wiser. 
• US informal used alone, not qualifying another word: I didn't hurt you any. 
PHRASES
any amount of see amount. any old see old. any time (also anytime)
1 at whatever time: she can come any time.
2 without exception or doubt: I can handle a shrimp like him anytime. any time (or day or minute, etc.) now informal very soon: we'll get them back any day now. be not having any (of it) informal be unwilling to cooperate: I tried to make polite conversation, but he wasn't having any.hardly any see hardly. not just any — a particular or special thing of its type rather than an ordinary one of that type: he had an acting job at last, and not just any part, but the lead in a new film.ORIGIN Old English ǣnig (see one, -y1), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch eenig and German einig . usage: When used as a pronoun, any can be used with either a singular or a plural verb, depending on the context: we needed more sugar but there wasn't any left (singular verb) or are any of the new videos available? (plural verb).
