apart 
BrE əˈpɑːt, AmE əˈpɑrt 

A.  adverb 
① (at a distance in time or space) 相隔 xiānggé the trees were planted
10 metres apart 这些树每隔10米种一棵 stand with one's feet or legs apart 叉开腿站着 be born
3 years apart 相差3年出生 
② (living or staying separately from each other) 分开地 fēnkāi de (aloof) 疏远地 shūyuǎn de they need to be kept apart 得让他们分开生活 she keeps herself apart from other people 她与其他人保持距离 
③ (to or on one side) 在一边 zài yībiān he took me apart for a quiet talk 他把我带到一边私下谈话 
④ (leaving aside) 除外 chúwài dogs apart, I don't like animals 除了狗，我不喜欢动物 
⑤ (expressing uniqueness) 与众不同地 yǔ zhòng bù tóng de a race/world apart 独特的种族/世界 his work is in a class apart 他的作品别具一格 
⑥ (different) 有分歧地 yǒu fēnqí de to be worlds apart from … 与…截然不同 we are very far apart on the subject of immigration 我们对移民问题的看法大相径庭 
⑦ (in pieces) 零碎地 língsuì de he had the TV apart on the floor 他把电视机放在地板上拆散了 
B.  apart from preposition phrase 
① (except for) 除了…外（别无） chúle… wài(bié wú) the car was empty apart from the dog 车上空空的，只有这条狗 
② (in addition to) 除了…外（还有） chúle… wài(hái yǒu) apart from being illegal, it's also dangerous 这事不但违法，还有危险 
apart 
əˈpärt

▶adverb
1 (of two or more people or things) separated by a distance; at a specified distance from each other in time or space: his parents are now living apart 
two stone gateposts some thirty feet apart 
countries as far apart as New Zealand and the US 
figurative : the two sides remained far apart on the issue.
2 to or on one side; at a distance from the main body: Isabel stepped away from Joanna and stood apart 
figurative : their religious commitment sets them apart. 
• used after a noun to indicate that someone or something has distinctive qualities that mark them out from other people or things: wrestlers were a breed apart. 
• used after a noun to indicate that someone or something has been dealt with sufficiently or is being excluded from what follows: Alaska apart, much of America's energy business concentrates on producing gas.
3 so as to be shattered; into pieces: he leapt out of the car just before it was blown apart. 
PHRASES
apart from
1 except for: the whole world seemed to be sleeping, apart from Barbara.
2 in addition to; as well as: quite apart from all the work, he had such financial problems. tell apart distinguish or separate one from another: the twins were so identical that it was impossible to tell them apart.DERIVATIVES apartness nounORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French, from Latin a parte ‘at the side.’
