appeal 
BrE əˈpiːl, AmE əˈpil 

A.  intransitive verb 
① (call, request) 呼吁 hūyù to appeal for [something]; 呼吁某事 the manager appealed for calm 经理呼吁保持冷静 to appeal to [somebody] for/to do [something]; 恳请某人给予某物/做某事 he appealed to the court for mercy 他恳求法庭宽恕 
② Law 上诉 shàngsù to appeal to a higher court 向上级法院申诉 to appeal against [something]; 不服某事提出上诉 
③ Sport 诉诸裁判 sù zhū cáipàn 
④ (attract, interest) 有吸引力 yǒu xīyǐnlì does this colour appeal to you? 这种颜色你喜欢吗？ 
B.  noun 
① (call, request) 呼吁 hūyù an appeal for [something]; 对某事的呼吁 an appeal to [somebody]; 向某人发出的呼吁 he made an appeal to the citizens for tolerance 他恳请公民要宽容 
② Law 上诉 shàngsù to make or lodge an appeal against [something] 不服某事提出上诉 
③ Sport 诉诸裁判 sù zhū cáipàn 
④ (attraction, interest) 吸引力 xīyǐnlì 
appeal 
əˈpēl

▶verb [no object]
1 make a serious or urgent request, typically to the public: police are appealing for information about the incident 
she appealed to Germany for political asylum.
2 Law apply to a higher court for a reversal of the decision of a lower court: he said he would appeal against the conviction. 
• [with object] chiefly North American apply to a higher court for a reversal of (the decision of a lower court): they have 48 hours to appeal the decision. 
• Baseball (of the team in the field) call on the umpire to rule a strike or out on a completed play. 
• (appeal to) address oneself to (a principle or quality in someone) in anticipation of a favorable response: I appealed to his sense of justice.
3 be attractive or interesting: the range of topics will appeal to youngsters. 
▶noun
1 a serious or urgent request, typically one made to the public: his mother made an appeal for the return of the ring. 
• an attempt to obtain financial support: a public appeal to raise $120,000. 
• entreaty: a look of appeal on his face.
2 Law an application to a higher court for a decision to be reversed: he has 28 days in which to lodge an appeal 
the right of appeal. 
• an address to a principle or quality in anticipation of a favorable response: an appeal to black pride.
3 the quality of being attractive or interesting: the popular appeal of football. DERIVATIVES appealer 
əˈpēlər 
nounORIGIN Middle English (in legal contexts): from Old French apel (noun), apeler (verb), from Latin appellare ‘to address,’ based on ad- ‘to’ + pellere ‘to drive.’
