apple 
BrE ˈap(ə)l, AmE ˈæpəl 
noun (fruit) 苹果 píngguǒ (tree) 苹果树 píngguǒ shù the apple of [somebody's] eye figurative 掌上明珠 there's a bad apple in every bunch 哪儿都有害群之马 to upset the apple cart 打乱计划 an apple a day keeps the doctor away proverb 天天吃苹果，医生远离我 
apple 
ˈapəl

▶noun
1 the round fruit of a tree of the rose family, which typically has thin red or green skin and crisp flesh. Many varieties have been developed as dessert or cooking fruit or for making cider. 
• [with modifier] an unrelated fruit that resembles an apple in some way. See also custard apple, thorn apple.
2 (also apple tree) the tree which bears apples. [Genus Malus, family Rosaceae: numerous hybrids and cultivars.]
3 (the Apple) short for Big Apple. 
PHRASES
the apple never falls far from the tree proverb family characteristics are usually inherited. the apple of one's eye a person of whom one is extremely fond and proud. [originally denoting the pupil of the eye, considered to be a globular solid body, extended as a symbol of something cherished.] apples and oranges (also apples to oranges) North American used with reference to two things that are fundamentally different and therefore not suited to comparison: unless you also drove a Corolla on the same roads as the A8, you're comparing apples and oranges. apples to apples North American [often with negative] used with reference to a comparison regarded as valid because it concerns two things that are fundamentally the same: there is no apples-to-apples comparison when comparing a foreign currency to USD 
you want to compare us to Australia or Great Britain, like it’s apples to apples. a rotten (or bad) apple informal a bad or corrupt person in a group, typically one whose behavior is likely to have a detrimental influence on his or her associates. [with reference to the effect that a rotten apple has on fruit with which it is in contact.] upset the applecart spoil a plan or disturb the status quo.ORIGIN Old English æppel, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch appel and German Apfel .
