approach 
BrE əˈprəʊtʃ, AmE əˈproʊtʃ 

A.  intransitive verb «person, animal, vehicle» 接近 jiējìn ; «event, season, date» 临近 línjìn night is approaching 夜幕即将降临 the approaching wedding 即将举行的婚礼 
B.  transitive verb 
① (advance towards) 接近 jiējìn ‹person, place, number, record›
② (make overtures to) 与…接洽 yǔ… jiēqià he approached us about the problem 他找我们谈了这个问题 to approach [somebody] to do [something]; 为做某事与某人接洽 easy/difficult to approach 容易/难以接近的 
③ (tackle) 处理 chǔlǐ ‹problem, task›he approaches every new job with enthusiasm 他对待每项新工作都很热情 
C.  noun 
① Countable(access route) 通道 tōngdào all approaches to the city have been sealed off 通往这座城市的所有道路都已封闭 
② Uncountable(drawing near) 靠近 kàojìn the approach of footsteps 脚步声的临近 the approach of autumn/old age 秋天/老年的来临 
③ Countable(method) 方法 fāngfǎ 
④ Countable(overture, proposal) 提议 tíyì we have received an approach from a rival company 我们公司已经收到一家竞争对手公司的接管出价 
⑤ Countable(approximation) 近似的事物 jìnsì de shìwù this was the nearest approach to a solution 这是最接近的答案 
D.  approaches noun plural (overture) 接近的表示 jiējìn de biǎoshì (sexual) 挑逗 tiǎodòu to make approaches to [somebody]/[something] 主动与某人/某机构接洽 
approach 
əˈprōCH

▶verb [with object]
1 come near or nearer to (someone or something) in distance: the train approached the main line 
[no object] : she hadn't heard him approach 
(as adjective approaching) : an approaching car. 
• come near or nearer to (a future time or event): he was approaching retirement. 
• [no object] (of a future time) come nearer: the time is approaching when you will be destroyed. 
• come close to (a number, level, or standard) in quality or quantity: the population will approach
12 million by the end of the decade. 
• archaic bring nearer: all those changes shall serve to approach him the faster to the blest mansion.
2 speak to (someone) for the first time about something, typically with a proposal or request: the department had been approached about funding.
3 start to deal with (something) in a certain way: one must approach the matter with caution. 
▶noun
1 a way of dealing with something: we need a whole new approach to the job.
2 an act of speaking to someone for the first time about something, typically a proposal or request: the landowner made an approach to the developer. 
• (approaches) dated behavior intended to propose personal or sexual relations with someone: feminine resistance to his approaches.
3 [in singular] the action of coming near or nearer to someone or something in distance or time: the approach of winter. 
• (approach to) an approximation to something: the past is impossible to recall with any approach to accuracy. 
• the part of an aircraft's flight in which it descends gradually toward an airfield or runway for landing: the aircraft completed the approach and touched down.
4 (usually approaches) a road, sea passage, or other way leading to a place: the eastern approach to the town. ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French aprochier, aprocher, from ecclesiastical Latin appropiare ‘draw near,’ from ad- ‘to’ + propius (comparative of prope ‘near’).
