around 
BrE əˈraʊnd, AmE əˈraʊnd 

A.  adverb 
① (approximately) 大约 dàyuē around £200 大约200英镑 at around
3 p.m. 在下午三点钟左右 
② (in the vicinity) 在附近 zài fùjìn to be (somewhere) around; 在附近（某处） there's nobody around 附近没有人 
③ (in circulation) «product, technology» 面市 miànshì I wish I'd been around 50 years ago 我希望自己50年前就在这世上了 one of the most gifted musicians around 当今最具才华的音乐家之一 she's been around figurative colloquial 她是过来人 be around again «fashion, style» 再度流行 
④ (in all directions) 在四处 zài sìchù all around 到处 to travel around 到各地旅行 for miles around 周围数英里内 
⑤ (in a circle) 环绕着 huánràozhe the mill wheel moved around slowly 水车轮缓慢转动着 the wall goes all the way around 围墙环绕四周 what goes around comes around 善恶皆有报 
⑥ (in circumference) 以周长计 yǐ zhōucháng jì the tree trunk is three metres around 树围长三米 
⑦ (in different direction) 朝不同方向 cháo bùtóng fāngxiàng (in opposite direction) 朝相反方向 cháo xiāngfǎn fāngxiàng to go the long way around 绕远道 to do [something] the other way around figurative 以相反方式做某事 the right/wrong way around 正过来/反过来 to put one's skirt on the wrong way around 把裙子前后穿反 you're Ben and you're Tom: is that the right way around? 你是本，而你是汤姆，这回对了吧？ 
⑧ (in place) 在某处 zài mǒu chù (to place) 至某地 zhì mǒu dì (in home) 在家里 zài jiā li (to home) 到家里 dào jiā li I'll be around in a minute 我马上就过来 to ask or invite [somebody] around 邀请某人来家里 
B.  preposition 
① (in a circle, on all sides of) 围绕 wéirào the villages around Dublin 都柏林周围的村庄 she had a scarf around her head 她的头上裹着一条围巾 she put her arm around his shoulders 她搂着他的肩膀 the first person to fly around the world 环球飞行第一人 
② (throughout) 在…各处 zài… gè chù there were clothes scattered around the room 屋子里衣服扔得到处都是 (from) (all) around the world （从）世界各地 
③ (in the vicinity of, near) 在…附近 zài… fùjìn somewhere around the house/Paris 在房子/巴黎周围的某个地方 she's not from around here 她不是本地人 
④ (approximately at) 在…前后 zài… qiánhòu around midnight/1990 大约在午夜/1990年 
⑤ (to the other side of, so as to avoid) 绕过 ràoguo there's a way around the problem 有一种方法可避开这个问题 to go around the corner/a bend 绕过拐角/转弯处 
⑥ (on the basis of) 以…为基础 yǐ… wéi jīchǔ (having a centre in) 以…为中心 yǐ… wéi zhōngxīn a society built around Christian ethics 建立在基督教伦理基础之上的社会 she had built her life around her children 她的生活以她的孩子们为中心 
⑦ (when measuring) 绕…一周 rào… yī zhōu he's 90 cm around the chest 他的胸围是90厘米 
around 
əˈround

▶adverb
1 (British also round) located or situated on every side: the mountains towering all around 
a building visible for miles around. 
• so as to surround someone or something: everyone crowded around 
a pool with banks all the way around. 
• so as to give support and companionship: if one girl is distraught, the others will rally around. 
• with circular motion: the boats were spun around by waterspouts. 
• so as to cover or take in the whole area surrounding a particular center: she paused to glance around admiringly at the decor. 
• so as to reach everyone in a particular group or area: he passed a newspaper clipping around.
2 (British also round) so as to rotate and face in the opposite direction: Jack seized her by the shoulders and turned her around 
figurative : having him in my corner has turned my career around. 
• so as to lead in another direction: it was the last house before the road curved around. 
• used in describing the position of something, typically with regard to the direction in which it is facing or its relation to other items: the picture shows the pieces the wrong way around. 
• used to describe a situation in terms of the relation between people, actions, or events: it was he who was attacking her, not the other way around.
3 (British also round) so as to reach a new place or position, typically by moving from one side of something to the other: he made his way around to the back of the building 
they went the long way around by the main road. 
• in or to many places throughout a locality: his only ambition is to drive around in a sports car 
word got around that he was on the verge of retirement. 
• used to convey an ability to navigate or orient oneself: I like pupils to find their own way around. 
• informal used to convey the idea of visiting someone else: why don't you come around to my office? 
• randomly or unsystematically; here and there: John tried to focus on her but she kept moving around 
one of them was glancing nervously around.
4 (British also round) in existence, in the vicinity, or in active use: there was no one around 
by being around I threaten her happiness 
barley has been around for a long time. 
• near at hand: he would want to have her around as much as possible.
5 approximately; about: software costs would be around $1,500 
[as preposition] : I returned to my hotel around
3 a.m. 
▶preposition (British also round)
1 on every side of: the palazzo is built around a courtyard 
the hills around the city. 
• (of something abstract) having (the thing mentioned) as a focal point: our entire culture is built around those loyalties 
you can organize your essay around an existing critical controversy.
2 in or to many places throughout (a community or locality): cycling around the village 
a number of large depots around the country. 
• on the other side of (a corner or obstacle): Steven parked the car around the corner. 
• so as to hit (something) in passing: if he didn't shut up, he might get a slap around the ear.
3 so as to encircle or embrace (someone or something): he put his arm around her 
warming her hands around a cup of coffee 
the polar vortex around Antarctica. 
• (of a person's arm or arms) partially encircling (another person) as part of a gesture of affection: Mike put an arm around Mary and kissed her. 
• following an approximately circular route: he walked around the airfield 
it can drill around corners 
the contour followed around a curve to the north. 
• so as to cover or take in the whole area of (a place): she went around the house and saw that all the windows were barred. 
PHRASES
around the bend see bend1. have been around informal have a lot of varied experience and understanding of the world.ORIGIN Middle English: from a-2 ‘in, on’ + round . usage: Are around and round (as preposition and adverbial particle) interchangeable? In US English, the normal form in most contexts is around; round is generally regarded as informal or nonstandard and is standard only in certain fixed expressions, as in the park is open year round and they went round and round in circles.
