as 
BrE az, əz, AmE æz, əz 

A.  preposition 
① (specifying function or status) 作为 zuòwéi he works as a pilot/an engineer 他的职业是飞行员/工程师 my rights as a parent 我作为家长的权力 to be treated as an equal 受到平等待遇 it came as a shock to learn that … 得知…，令人震惊 he was quoted as saying that … 用他的话来说… with Lauren Bacall as Vivien 由劳伦芭考尔饰演维维恩 
② (in order to appear to be) 如同 rútóng to be dressed as a sailor 打扮得像个水手 to be disguised as a clown 装扮成小丑 in the book he is portrayed as a victim 在那本书中，他被描写成了受害者 
③ (expressing start of period) as from or of …; 自…起 zì… qǐ as from or of April 从四月份起 cóng sìyuèfèn qǐ as of yet 迄今为止 qìjīn wéizhǐ 
④ as to (about, concerning) 关于 guānyú this gave them no clue as to his motives 他们并未因此获得任何有关他动机的线索 
⑤ as for (in the case of) 至于 zhìyú as for him, he can go to hell colloquial 他嘛，让他见鬼去吧 
⑥ as against (in comparison) 和…相比 hé… xiāngbǐ the figure was 75% this year, as against 35% last year 与去年的35%相比，今年的数字为75% 
B.  conjunction 
① (in the manner that) 以…方式 yǐ… fāngshì he likes reading, as I do 他像我一样，喜欢阅读 as you know 正如你所知 as a matter of principle, he should apologize 原则上，他应该道歉 as I see/understand it 依我看/据我理解 as he lived, so did he die 他生如斯，死亦如斯 leave it as it is 别管它了 we're in enough trouble as it is 我们目前的麻烦够多的了 two is to four as four is to eight 2比4等于4比8 as you were! Military 还原！ 
② (when, while) 当…时 dāng… shí as she grew older, she grew richer 她越老越富有 as a student, I had strong left-wing views 我当学生的时候有强烈的左派观点 
③ (because, since) 因为 yīnwèi as it's Sunday, the smaller shops are shut 由于是星期天，小店铺都关门了 as she is sick, she cannot go out 她病了，所以不能外出 
④ (though) 尽管 jǐnguǎn clever as he is, he is still inexperienced 他虽然聪明，但还缺乏经验 be that as it may 尽管如此 try as he might, he could not forget it 他努力去忘记却还是忘不了这件事 
⑤ (expressing similarity) 如同 rútóng the same … as 同…一样… the same man as I saw last week 我上周见到的那个人 the same as always 一如既往 
⑥ (expressing purpose) 为了 wèile so as to do [something]; 以便做某事 so as not to wake him 以免把他吵醒 
C.  adverb 
① (expressing degree, extent) as … as …; 与…同样地… yǔ… tóngyàng de… he is not as or so intelligent as you 他不如你聪明 tā bùrú nǐ cōngming she can play the piano as well as her sister 她钢琴弹得和她姐妹一样好 run as fast as you can 能跑多快就跑多快 as many as 10,000 people 多达1万人 duō dá
1 wàn rén as strong as an ox 壮得像头牛 zhuàng de xiàng tóu niú as long ago as 1849 早在1849年 zǎo zài
1 8
4
9 nián they have a house in Nice as well as an apartment in Paris 他们除了在巴黎有一套公寓，在尼斯还有一幢房子 as well as being a poet, he is a novelist 他不只是诗人，也是小说家 only half as expensive as … 只有…的一半贵 zhǐyǒu… de yībàn guì their profits are down by as much as 30% 他们的利润减少了30%之多 
② (expressing similarity) 像…一样 xiàng… yīyàng they tried to carry on as before 他们试图像往常一样继续下去 I thought as much! 我原本也这么想！ V as in Victor 如Victor中的V 
D.  as and when conjunction phrase 当…时 dāng… shí as and when the need arises 一旦有需要 drop in as and when you want 你随时可以过来坐坐 
E.  as if conjunction phrase 似乎 sìhū it seems as if she was right all along 好像她一直都是对的 it looks as if we've lost/won 我们看上去输了/赢了 as if by magic 神奇地 as if I cared! 我才不在乎呢！ 
as
1 
az əz

▶adverb (usually as —— as) used in comparisons to refer to the extent or degree of something: hailstones as big as tennis balls 
go as fast as you can 
it tasted like grape juice but not as sweet. 
• used to emphasize an amount: as many as twenty-two rare species may be at risk. 
▶conjunction
1 used to indicate that something happens during the time when something is taking place: Frank watched him as he ambled through the crowd 
as she grew older, she kept more to herself.
2 used to indicate by comparison the way that something happens or is done: dress as you would if you were having guests 
they can do as they wish 
[as adverb] : she kissed him goodbye, as usual 
as in the past, a collection is to be taken. 
• used to add or interject a comment relating to the statement of a fact: as you can see, I didn't go after all 
he has, as you know, called for a referendum.
3 because; since: I must stop now as I have to go out.
4 even though: sweet as he is, he doesn't pay his bills 
try as he might, he failed to pull it off. 
▶preposition
1 used to refer to the function or character that someone or something has: he got a job as a cook 
they were treated as foreigners 
it came as a shock 
as a dairy producer, you should evaluate and analyze your farm from many viewpoints.
2 during the time of being (the thing specified): he had often been sick as a child 
as a student, my nickname was Space. 
PHRASES
as and when at the time when (used to refer to an uncertain future event): they deal with an issue as and when it rears its head. as for with regard to: as for you, you'd better be quick. as if (or as though) as would be the case if: she behaved as if he weren't there.as if! informal I very much doubt it: You know how lottery winners always say it won't change their lives? Yeah, as if! as (it) is in the existing circumstances: I've got enough on my plate as it is. as it were in a way (used to be less precise): areas that have been, as it were, pushed aside. as long as see long1. as much see much. as of used to indicate the time or date from which something starts: as of January 1, a free market will be created 
I'm on unemployment as of today.as per see per. as such see such. as though see as if . as to with respect to; concerning: decisions as to which patients receive treatment. as well see well1. as yet [usually with negative] until now or a particular time in the past: the damage is as yet undetermined.ORIGIN Middle English: reduced form of Old English alswā ‘similarly’ (see also) . usage:
1 A small, seemingly innocent word, as is so frequently misused (or not used where needed) that interested writers are advised to consult a full-length usage guide for counsel on its proper use. As is often used in causal senses in place of because or since ( As Julie wasn't hungry, she ordered only a cup of coffee); in such constructions, where as may cause confusion, it is generally advisable to use the unambiguous because, or since.
2 On whether it is more correct to say he's not as shy as I rather than he's not as shy as me, or I live in the same street as she rather than I live in the same street as her, see usage at personal pronoun.3 For a discussion of when to use as rather than like, see usage at like1 .
