aspect 
BrE ˈaspɛkt, AmE ˈæspɛkt 
noun 
① (feature, part) 部分 bùfen 
② (angle) 方面 fāngmiàn seen from this aspect 从这一角度看 to examine every aspect of [something] 研究某事物的各个方面 
③ (orientation) 朝向 cháoxiàng a house with a westerly aspect 面朝西的房子 
④ literary (view) 景色 jǐngsè a pleasant aspect 宜人的景色 
⑤ literary (appearance) 外表 wàibiǎo a man of repulsive aspect 面目狰狞的男子 
⑥ Linguistics (of verb) 体 tǐ 
aspect 
ˈaspekt

▶noun
1 a particular part or feature of something: the financial aspect can be overstressed. 
• a specific way in which something can be considered: from every aspect, theirs was a changing world. 
• [in singular] a particular appearance or quality: the air of desertion lent the place a sinister aspect 
a man of decidedly foreign aspect.
2 [usually in singular] the positioning of a building or thing in a specified direction: a greenhouse with a southern aspect. 
• the side of a building facing a particular direction: the front aspect of the hotel was unremarkable. 
• Astrology a particular position of a planet or other celestial body relative to another, as measured by angular distance: the sun in Aries formed an adverse aspect with Uranus in Capricorn.
3 Grammar a grammatical category or form that expresses the way in which time is denoted by the verb: the semantics of tense and aspect 
four verbal aspects. There are two aspects in English, the progressive or continuing aspect (expressing duration, typically using the auxiliary verb be with a form in -ing, as in I was reading a book) and the perfect or perfective (expressing completed action, typically using the auxiliary verb have with a past participle, as in I have read the book). 
▶verb [with object] Astrology (of a planet) form an aspect with (another celestial body): the sun is superbly aspected by your ruler Mars on the 19th. DERIVATIVES aspectual 
aˈspek(t)SH(o͞o)əl 
adjectiveORIGIN late Middle English (denoting the action or a way of looking at something): from Latin aspectus, from aspicere ‘look at,’ from ad- ‘to, at’ + specere ‘to look.’
