associate 
A.  /BrE əˈsəʊʃɪeɪt, əˈsəʊsɪeɪt, AmE əˈsoʊsiˌeɪt, əˈsoʊʃiˌeɪt
transitive verb 
① (connect in thought or imagination) 把…联系起来 bǎ… liánxì qilai these symptoms are associated with old age 这些是年老的症状 
② (be involved in) 与…有关系 yǔ… yǒu guānxì I don't want to be associated with this 我不想卷入这件事 to associate oneself with [something]; 表示赞成某事 
B.  /BrE əˈsəʊʃɪeɪt, əˈsəʊsɪeɪt, AmE əˈsoʊsiˌeɪt, əˈsoʊʃiˌeɪt
intransitive verb 交往 jiāowǎng to associate with [somebody]; 与某人交往 
C.  /BrE əˈsəʊʃɪət, əˈsəʊsɪət, AmE əˈsoʊʃiət
noun 
① (colleague, partner) 伙伴 huǒbàn an associate in crime 同案犯 Brown and Associates Busn 布朗及合伙人事务所 
② (subordinate member of society, academic body) 准会员 zhǔnhuìyuán 
D.  /BrE əˈsəʊʃɪət, əˈsəʊsɪət, AmE əˈsoʊʃiət
adjectivebefore noun 副的 fù de ‹director, editor, dean›; 非正式的 fēizhèngshì de ‹member›; 陪审的 péishěn de ‹judge›
associate 
▶verb 
əˈsōsēˌāt əˈsōSHēˌāt 
[with object] connect (someone or something) with something else in one's mind: I associated wealth with freedom. 
• (usually be associated) connect (something) with something else because they occur together or one produces another: the environmental problems associated with nuclear waste. 
• (associate oneself with) allow oneself to be connected with or seen to be supportive of: I cannot associate myself with some of the language used. 
• (be associated with) be involved with: she has been associated with the project from the first. 
• [no object] meet or have dealings with someone commonly regarded with disapproval: they are at risk of associating with criminals. 
▶noun 
əˈsōSHēət 

1 a partner or colleague in business or at work: he arranged for a close associate to take control of the institute. 
• a companion or friend: his old friend and hearty associate.
2 a person with limited or subordinate membership in an organization. 
• a person who holds an academic degree conferred by a junior college (only in titles or set expressions): an associate's degree in science 
an Associate of Arts.
3 chiefly Psychology a concept connected with another. 
▶adjective 
əˈsōSHēət 
[attributive] joined or connected with an organization or business: an associate company. 
• denoting shared function or membership but with a lesser status: the associate director of the academy. DERIVATIVES associability 
əˌsōSH(ē)əˈbilədē 
noun. associable 
əˈsōSH(ē)əbəl 
adjective. associateship 
əˈsōsēətˌSHip əˈsōSHēətˌSHip 
nounORIGIN late Middle English (as a verb in the sense ‘join with in a common purpose’; as an adjective in the sense ‘allied’): from Latin associat- ‘joined,’ from the verb associare, from ad- ‘to’ + socius ‘sharing, allied.’
