at 
BrE at, ət, AmE æt, ət 
preposition 
① (indicating location) 在 zài at the corner 在拐角处 be at church/the concert 在教堂做礼拜/在听音乐会 at work/school 在上班/上学 
② (indicating time) 在 zài [某时间或时刻]at
2 o'clock/the weekend etc. 在两点钟/在周末等 at the time of doing [something] 在做某事的时候 at this stage in the game BrE 在比赛的这个阶段 
③ (indicating age) 在…岁时 zài… suì shí she got married at 25 她25岁结的婚 
④ (indicating distance) 从相隔…远的地方 cóng xiānggé… yuǎn de dìfang I held it at arm's length 我伸直胳膊握着它 at fifty metres 在50米远处 
⑤ (in the direction of) 向 xiàng somebody threw paint at the prime minister 有人朝首相泼油漆 he clutched wildly at the rope 他拼命想抓住绳子 
⑥ (indicating state or situation) 处于…状态 chǔyú… zhuàngtài be at war 正在交战 be at a disadvantage 处于不利地位 he's at lunch colloquial 他正在吃午饭 I've been (hard) at it all day colloquial 我整天都在（拼命）干 they're at it again! colloquial 他们又干起来了！ at that 而且还 he managed to buy a car after all — and a nice one at that 他还是设法买了一辆汽车──而且还挺不错的 where [somebody] is at colloquial 某人的处境 where it's at colloquial 热门活动/场所 while [somebody] is at it colloquial 某人在做某事的同时 
⑦ (followed by superlative) [处于最佳或最差等状态]at [somebody's]/[something]'s best/worst etc. ; 处于某人/某事物的最佳/最差状态等 the garden's at its most beautiful in June 六月的花园最美丽 she was at her best at 50 她50岁时达到了事业的巅峰 
⑧ (indicating rate or speed) 以 yǐ to drive at 70 mph 以每小时70英里的速度驾驶 at two-minute intervals 每隔两分钟 at £2.50 (each) 以（每件）2.5英镑的价格 three at a time 每次三个 
⑨ (with respect to) 在…方面 zài… fāngmiàn she's hopeless at managing people/teaching 她对人事管理/教学一窍不通 
⑩ (because of) 因为 yīnwèi be impatient/delighted at [something] 对某事物不耐烦/感到高兴 
⑪ formal (in response to) 应 yìng at the chairman's invitation 应这位主席的邀请 I did it at his insistence 我是在他的坚持下做这件事的 
⑫ colloquial (harassing) 缠着 chánzhe he's been (on) at me to buy a new car 他一直缠着要我买辆新汽车 
at
1 
at ət

▶preposition
1 expressing location or arrival in a particular place or position: they live at Conway House 
she was constantly at the telex machine 
they stopped at a small trattoria. 
• used in speech to indicate the sign @ in email addresses, separating the address holder's name from their location.
2 expressing the time when an event takes place: the children go to bed at nine o'clock 
his death came at a time when the movement was split. 
• [without adjective] denoting a particular period of time: the sea is cooler at night. 
• [without adjective] denoting the time spent by someone attending an educational institution, a workplace, or their home: we all need to get involved in fighting crime whether it's at work, at home, or at school.
3 denoting a particular point or segment on a scale: prices start at $18,500 
driving at 50 mph. 
• referring to someone's age: at fourteen he began to work as a mailman.
4 expressing a particular state or condition: placed them at a serious disadvantage 
the coroner accepted that the machines were at fault. 
• expressing a relationship between an individual and a skill: boxing was the only sport I was any good at 
he is poor at giving instructions.
5 expressing the object of a look, gesture, thought, action, or plan: I looked at my watch 
Leslie pointed at him. 
• expressing the target of a shot from a weapon: they tore down the main street, firing at anyone in sight. 
• emphasizing the directing of an action toward a specified object: she clutched at the thin gown 
he hit at her face with the gun.
6 expressing the means by which something is done: holding a corrections officer at knifepoint 
figurative : her pride had taken a beating at his hands. 
PHRASES
at all see all. at first see first. at it engaged in some activity, typically a reprehensible one: oh dear, they are at it again. at last see last1. at least see least. at most see most. at once see once. at that in addition; furthermore: it was not fog but smoke, and very thick at that. not at all see not. where it's at informal the fashionable place, possession, or activity: New York is where it's at, stylewise. where someone is at informal someone's true or fundamental nature or character: I think we've got enough information to have an idea of where he's at.ORIGIN Old English æt, of Germanic origin; related to Old Frisian et and Old Norse at, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin ad ‘to.’
