authority 
BrE ɔːˈθɒrɪti, AmE əˈθɔrədi 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(power) 权力 quánlì to have (the) authority to do [something] 有权做某事 to exercise one's authority 行使权力 who's in authority here? 这里谁当权？ to do [something] on [somebody's] authority 根据某人的指示做某事 to be or act under [somebody's] authority 受某人支配 he has recently assumed authority for our transport division 他最近接管了我们的运输部门 
② Uncountable(forcefulness, confidence) 威信 wēixìn a person of authority 有威信的人 to speak with authority 用权威的口吻讲话 to lack authority 缺少威信 
③ Uncountable(permission) 授权 shòuquán to give [somebody] authority to do [something], to give authority for [somebody] to do [something] 批准某人做某事 
④ Countable(expert) 专家 zhuānjiā (book, film) 权威 quánwēi an authority on [something] 某方面的权威 
⑤ Countable(source) 来源 láiyuán what is your authority for these figures? 你的这些数字出自何处？ I have it on good authority that … 我有充分根据说… 
B.  the authorities noun plural (organization) 当局 dāngjú to report [something] to the authorities 向官方报告某事 
authority 
əˈTHôrədē 
(abbreviation auth.) 
▶noun (plural authorities)
1 the power or right to give orders, make decisions, and enforce obedience: he had absolute authority over his subordinates 
positions of authority 
they acted under the authority of the UN Security Council 
a rebellion against those in authority. 
• [often with infinitive] the right to act in a specified way, delegated from one person or organization to another: military forces have the legal authority to arrest drug traffickers. 
• official permission; sanction: the money was spent without congressional authority.
2 (often authorities) a person or organization having power or control in a particular, typically political or administrative, sphere: the health authorities 
the Chicago Transit Authority 
the authorities ordered all foreign embassies to close 
she wasn't used to dealing with authority.
3 the power to influence others, especially because of one's commanding manner or one's recognized knowledge about something: he has the natural authority of one who is used to being obeyed 
he spoke with authority on the subject. 
• the confidence resulting from personal expertise: he hit the ball with authority. 
• a person with extensive or specialized knowledge about a subject; an expert: she was an authority on the stock market. 
• a book or other source able to supply reliable information or evidence, typically to settle a dispute: the court cited a series of authorities supporting their decision. 
PHRASES
have something on good authority have ascertained something from a reliable source: I have it on good authority that there is a waiting list of up to five weeks.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French autorite, from Latin auctoritas, from auctor ‘originator, promoter’ (see author) .
