average 
BrE ˈav(ə)rɪdʒ, AmE ˈæv(ə)rɪdʒ 

A.  noun 
① Mathematics 平均数 píngjūnshù at an average of … 以…的平均值 to take an average 取平均值 
② (standard amount, level) 一般水平 yībān shuǐpíng the national average 全国平均水平 on average 以平均数论 the law of averages 平均律 
B.  adjective 
① Mathematics 平均的 píngjūn de 
② (usual, ordinary) 普通的 pǔtōng de we have above average inflation in this country 我国的通货膨胀率偏高 it was a pretty average sort of film 这部电影很一般 
C.  transitive verb 平均达到 píngjūn dádào I average seven hours' work a day 我平均一天工作7小时 PHRASAL VERB average out: 
A.  intransitive verb to average out to or at …; 平均为… píngjūn wéi… their working day averages out at 7-8 hours 他们每个工作日平均为7到8小时 I pay the mortgage and he pays the bills: it seems to average out okay 我付按揭还款，他付日常开支：看来两者持平 
B.  transitive verb [average something out, average out something] 算出…的平均值 suànchū… de píngjūnzhí 
average 
ˈav(ə)rij 
(abbreviation avg.) 
▶noun
1 a number expressing the central or typical value in a set of data, in particular the mode, median, or (most commonly) the mean, which is calculated by dividing the sum of the values in the set by their number: the housing prices there are twice the national average. Compare with mean3 ( sense
1 of the noun). 
• an amount, standard, level, or rate regarded as usual or ordinary: the month's snowfall is below average 
they take about thirty minutes on average.
2 the apportionment of financial liability resulting from loss of or damage to a ship or its cargo. 
• reduction in the amount payable under an insurance policy, e.g., in respect of partial loss. 
▶adjective constituting the result obtained by adding together several quantities and then dividing this total by the number of quantities: the average temperature in May was 64°
F.  
• of the usual or ordinary standard, level, or quantity: a woman of average height. 
• having qualities that are seen as typical of a particular person or thing: the average teenager prefers comfort to high fashion. 
• mediocre; not very good: a very average director who made very average movies. 
▶verb [with object] achieve or amount to as an average rate or amount over a period of time: annual inflation averaged 2.4 percent. 
• calculate or estimate the average of (figures or measurements): their earnings, averaged out over the month, were only $62 a week. 
• [no object] (average out) result in an even distribution; even out: it is reasonable to hope that the results will average out. 
• [no object] (average out at/to) result in an average figure of: the cost should average out to about $6 per page. DERIVATIVES averagely 
ˈav(ə)rəjlē 
adverbORIGIN late 15th century: from French avarie ‘damage to ship or cargo,’ earlier ‘customs duty,’ from Italian avaria, from Arabic 'awār ‘damage to goods’; the suffix -age is on the pattern of damage. Originally denoting a charge or customs duty payable by the owner of goods to be shipped, the term later denoted the financial liability from goods lost or damaged at sea, and specifically the equitable apportionment of this between the owners of the vessel and the cargo (late 16th century); this gave rise to the general sense of the equalizing out of gains and losses by calculating the mean (mid 18th century).
