away 
BrE əˈweɪ, AmE əˈweɪ 

A.  adverb 
① (not present, gone) 不在 bùzài I have to be away by
10 我10点钟之前一定要走 to be away (from work) 缺勤 (from school) 缺课 to be away on holiday/business 外出休假/出差 
② (distant in space) 在…距离处 zài… jùlí chù (distant in time) 间隔…的时间 jiàngé… de shíjiān 50m away 50米之外 stand away from the edge 远离边沿 the exam is only days away 没几天就要考试了 we live
3 hours away from London 我们住在离伦敦有3个小时行程的地方 away with you! (go away) 滚开！ (nonsense) 胡说！ 
③ (from here/there) 向别处 xiàng biéchù to crawl away 爬走 to drive away 驾车离开 the shift away from traditional values 对传统价值观的偏离 to move away from party orthodoxy 偏离党派的正统观念 
④ (for emphasis) [用于强调]away over on the other side of the lake 远在湖对面 away back in 1920/in the old days 早在1920年/在很久以前 
⑤ Sport 在客场 zài kèchǎng ‹play, win›
B.  adjective 
① attributive Sport 在客场的 zài kèchǎng de ‹goal, match›the away team 客队 
② predicative BrE colloquial (drunk) 醉酒的 zuìjiǔ de to be well away; 酩酊大醉 
away 
əˈwā

▶adverb
1 to or at a distance from a particular place, person, or thing: she landed badly, and crawled away 
they walked away from the church in silence 
Bernice pushed him away 
we'll be away for four nights 
there's a river not far away. 
• at a specified distance: when he was ten or twelve feet away, he stopped 
a loud explosion a short distance away 
we have had patients from as far away as Toronto. 
• at a specified future distance in time: the wedding is only weeks away. 
• toward a lower level; downward: in front of them the land fell away to the river. 
• conceptually to one side, so as no longer to be the focus of attention: the museum has shifted its emphasis away from research toward exhibitions.
2 into an appropriate place for storage or safekeeping: he put away the lawn furniture 
Philip locked away all the cash every night. 
• toward or into nonexistence: the sound of hoofbeats died away 
Marie felt her distress ebbing away.
3 constantly, persistently, or continuously: there was little Edgar crooning away 
have your camera ready and click away when you spot something. 
▶adjective (of a sports game) played at the opponents' field or court: tomorrow night's away game at Yankee Stadium 
an away victory. 
• relating to or denoting a sports team that is playing at the opponents' field or court: the away team left with a win in the shootout. 
▶noun a game played or won by a team at their opponents' field or court. 
PHRASES
away with see with. ORIGIN Old English onweg, aweg ‘on one's way’ (see a-2, way) .
