baby 
BrE ˈbeɪbi, AmE ˈbeɪbi 

A.  noun 
① (child) 婴儿 yīng'ér she's going to have a baby 她马上要生孩子了 don't be such a baby! colloquial 别这么孩子气！ to be left holding the baby figurative 被迫做苦差事 to throw the baby out with the bathwater figurative 把婴儿和洗澡水一起倒掉 smooth as a baby's bottom 十分光滑 
② (youngest member) 最年幼的成员 zuì niányòu de chéngyuán 
③ colloquial (pet project) 钟爱的项目 zhōng'ài de xiàngmù the show/project is his baby 这个展览/项目是他的得意之作 
④ especially AmE colloquial (girlfriend) 女友 nǚyǒu ; (boyfriend) 男友 nányǒu ; (as address) 宝贝儿 bǎobèir 
B.  adjectivebefore noun 
① (young) 幼小的 yòuxiǎo de a baby daughter/son 小女儿/儿子 a baby bird 幼鸟 
② (for a baby) 婴儿用的 yīng'ér yòng de baby clothes 婴儿服装 yīng'ér fúzhuāng 
C.  transitive verb colloquial pejorative 百般呵护 bǎibān hēhù 
baby 
ˈbābē

▶noun (plural babies)
1 a very young child, especially one newly or recently born: his wife's just had a baby 
[as modifier] : a baby girl. 
• a young or newly born animal. 
• the youngest member of a family or group: Clara was the baby of the family. 
• a timid or childish person: “Don't be such a baby!” she said witheringly. 
• (one's baby) informal one's particular responsibility, achievement, or concern: “This is your baby, Gerry,” she said, handing him the brief.
2 informal a young woman or a person with whom one is having a romantic relationship (often as a form of address): my baby left me for another guy 
baby, don't cry! 
• a thing regarded with affection or familiarity: this baby can reach speeds of 140 mph. 
▶adjective [attributive] comparatively small or immature of its kind: a baby grand piano. 
• (of vegetables) picked before reaching their usual size: baby carrots. 
▶verb (babies, babying, babied) [with object] treat (someone) as a baby; pamper or be overprotective toward: her aunt babied her and fussed over her clothes. 
PHRASES
throw the baby out with the bathwater discard something valuable along with other things that are inessential or undesirable.DERIVATIVES babyhood 
ˈbābēˌho͝od 
nounORIGIN late Middle English: probably imitative of an infant's first attempts at speech.
