backwards 
BrE ˈbakwədz, AmE ˈbækwərdz 
adverbespecially BrE 
① (in a reverse direction) 向后 xiàng hòu to face backwards 面向后方 to move/slope backwards 向后移动/倾斜 backwards and forwards 来来回回 to bend or fall or lean over backwards (to do [something]) colloquial 竭力（做某事） 
② (starting from the end) 倒着 dàozhe ‹play, say›to count backwards 倒数 
③ (the wrong way round) 前后颠倒 qiánhòu diāndǎo to put a dress on backwards 前后穿反连衣裙 to get [something] backwards 误解 ‹message, instructions›you've got it all backwards 你完全理解错了 
④ (into past) 向以前 xiàng yǐqián to look backwards 回顾 a journey backwards through time 逆时光旅行 
⑤ (into worse state) 倒退地 dàotuì de a step backwards 退步 
⑥ (thoroughly) 彻底地 chèdǐ de to know [something] backwards 对某事了如指掌 
backward 
ˈbakwərd

▶adjective
1 [attributive] directed behind or to the rear: she left the room without a backward glance 
a gradual backward movement. 
• looking toward the past, rather than being progressive; retrograde: he said the decision was a backward step.
2 having made less than normal progress: economically backward countries. 
• dated or offensive (of a person) having learning difficulties: a lively child but a bit backward. 
▶adverb (also backwards)
1 (of a movement) away from one's front; in the direction of one's back: he took a step backward 
Harry suddenly fell backward into a somersault. 
• in reverse of the usual direction or order: counting backward 
baseball caps turned backward.
2 toward or into the past: a loving look backward at his early life. 
• toward or into a worse state: a giant step backward for child-centered education. 
PHRASES
backward and forward in both directions alternately; to and fro. bend (or lean) over backward to do something informal make every effort, especially to be fair or helpful: Jensen bent over backward to be fair. know something backward (and forward) be entirely familiar with something.DERIVATIVES backwardly 
ˈbakwərdlē 
adverbORIGIN Middle English: from earlier abackward, from aback . usage: In US English, the adverb form is sometimes spelled backwards ( the ladder fell backwards), but the adjective is almost always backward ( a backward glance). Directional words using the suffix -ward tend to have no s ending in US English, although backwards is more common than afterwards, towards, or forwards. The s ending often (but not always) appears in the phrases backwards and forwards and bending over backwards. In British English, the spelling backwards is more common than backward.
