bad 
BrE bad, AmE bæd 

A.  adjective(comparative form worse, superlative form worst) 
① (unpleasant, unfavourable, negative) 不愉快的 bù yúkuài de ‹holiday›; 不好的 bù hǎo de ‹weather, news, sign, result, reaction›; 艰难的 jiānnán de ‹time›a bad dream 噩梦 the patient had a bad night 病人难受了一个晚上 he's had a bad day 他今天很倒霉 not bad (at all) （相当）不错 that's bad! 真遗憾！ it has its good points and its bad points 它有利有弊 it's been a bad year for apples 今年苹果歉收 it looks bad 看来情况不妙 → taste 
A. , → job 
A. 
⑧ 
② (of low standard or quality, incompetent, unacceptable) 劣质的 lièzhì de ‹book, performance›; 不好的 bù hǎo de ‹advice, harvest, school›; 不正确的 bù zhèngquè de ‹decision, pronunciation, spelling›; 贫瘠的 pínjí de ‹soil, land›; 昏暗的 hūn'àn de ‹light›problems due to bad workmanship 粗制滥造引起的问题 the shoes are a bad fit 鞋不合脚 the portrait is not a bad likeness 这幅肖像画跟本人还是蛮像的 she's a bad singer 她歌唱得难听 you're a bad liar 你说的谎不高明 to be bad at [something]/doing [something]; 不擅长某事/做某事 that's not so bad: it could have been worse 还不算太糟：本来可能更糟 too bad (sympathetic) 太可惜了 (unsympathetic, impatient) 太倒霉了 (angry) 太不像话了 a bad business 不幸的事 → riddance 
③ (rotten) 腐坏的 fǔ huài de ‹food›a bad tooth 蛀牙 a smell of bad eggs 臭鸡蛋的气味 to go bad 腐烂 
④ (ill) (with a weakness) 生病的 shēngbìng de (with injury) 受伤的 shòushāng de to have a bad heart 有心脏病 ouch! that's my bad finger! 哎唷！我那根手指有伤！ how are you? — not so bad (in health) 你感觉怎么样？──还可以吧 (in reply to greeting) 你好吗？──还行 to feel bad 感觉不舒服 to be in a bad way colloquial (in health) 生病 (in general situation) 境况不佳 
⑤ (wicked) 不道德的 bù dàodé de to lead a bad life 过放荡的生活 it is bad (of [somebody]) to do [something] （某人）做某事是不对的 
⑥ (naughty) 淘气的 táoqì de ‹child, conduct›; 不听话的 bù tīnghuà de ‹animal›
⑦ (offensive) 无礼的 wúlǐ de ‹word›; 坏的 huài de ‹habit›
⑧ (sorry, guilty) 愧疚的 kuìjiù de to feel bad about [something]/doing [something] 对某事/做某事感到歉疚 
⑨ (harmful) 有害的 yǒuhài de to be bad for [somebody]/[something]; «alcohol, worrying, weather» 对某人/某事物有害 
⑩ (inappropriate) 不适合的 bù shìhé de ‹weather, place, example›you picked a bad moment to ask him 你问他问得不是时候 
⑪ (severe, serious) 严重的 yánzhòng de ‹mistake, damage›; 拥挤的 yōngjǐ de ‹traffic›; 强烈的 qiángliè de ‹shock, storm›to have bad toothache 牙痛得厉害 a bad cold 重感冒 to look bad 看上去很严重 
⑫ (counterfeit or invalid) 伪造的 wěizào de ‹note, money›; 无效的 wúxiào de ‹loan, insurance claim›
⑬ (insufficient) 少的 shǎo de ‹pay, salary›; 低的 dī de ‹price, rate of interest›the kitchen is not a bad size 厨房不算小 
B.  noun 
① Uncountable(evil, wickedness) 邪恶 xié'è the conflict between good and bad 善恶之间的斗争 to go to the bad dated 堕落 
② Uncountable(unpleasantness, unfavourableness) 不幸 bùxìng to take the bad with the good 经历人生的顺逆 to be to the bad (disadvantageous) 处于不利地位 (in deficit) 亏损 
③ plus plural verb the bad (wicked people) 坏人 huàirén 
C.  adverb especially AmE colloquial 非常 fēicháng ‹want, need›; 严重地 yánzhòng de ‹hurt›he beat her up real bad 他狠狠地揍了她一顿 to have got it bad (enthusiastic) 走火入魔 (in love) 坠入爱河 
bad 
bad

▶adjective (worse 
wərs
; worst 
wərst
)
1 of poor quality or a low standard: a bad diet 
bad eyesight. 
• (of a person) not able to do a particular thing well: I'm so bad at names 
a bad listener. 
• not appropriate in a particular situation: morning was a bad time to ask Andy about anything.
2 not such as to be hoped for or desired; unpleasant or unwelcome: bad weather 
we had the worst luck. 
• (of something causing pain, danger, or other unwelcome consequences) severe or serious: bad headaches 
a bad crash 
a bad mistake. 
• unfavorable; adverse: bad reviews. 
• (bad for) having a harmful effect on: soap was bad for his face.
3 failing to conform to standards of moral virtue or acceptable conduct: the bad guys 
bad behavior. 
• (of language) using words generally considered offensive; vulgar.
4 (of a part of the body) injured, diseased, or painful: a bad back. 
• [as complement] (of a person) unwell: I tried medication but felt even worse the next morning.
5 (of food) decayed; putrid: everything in the fridge went bad. 
• (of the atmosphere) polluted; unhealthy: bad air.
6 [as complement] regretful, guilty, or ashamed about something: she feels bad about ending their engagement 
I feel bad that our business is benefiting from something so horrible.
7 worthless; not valid: he ran up 87 bad checks.
8 (badder, baddest) informal, chiefly North American good; excellent: they want the baddest, best-looking Corvette there is. 
▶adverb North American informal badly: he beat her up real bad. 
PHRASES
come to a bad end see end. from bad to worse into an even worse state: the country's going from bad to worse. in a bad way ill: Sammy shivered. He was in a bad way. 
• in trouble: the fleet was in a bad way, mainly due to a shortage of spares. my bad North American informal used to acknowledge responsibility for a mistake: Sorry about the confusion. It's my bad. not (or not so) bad informal fairly good: she discovered he wasn't so bad after all. to the bad to ruin: I hate to see you going to the bad. 
• in deficit: he was $80 to the bad. too bad informal used to indicate that something is regrettable but now beyond retrieval: too bad, but that's the way it is.DERIVATIVES baddish 
ˈbadiSH 
adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: perhaps representing Old English bǣddel ‘hermaphrodite, womanish man.’ usage: Confusion in the use of bad versus badly usually has to do with verbs called copulas, such as feel or seem. Thus, standard usage calls for I feel bad, not I feel badly. As a precise speaker or writer would explain, I feel badly means ‘I do not have a good sense of touch.’ See also usage at good .
