bag 
BrE baɡ, AmE bæɡ 

A.  noun 
① (container) 袋 dài (it's) in the bag 十拿九稳 a mixed bag 良莠不齐 she's (just) a bag of bones 她骨瘦如柴 bag and baggage 所有财物 to have bags under one's eyes 有眼袋 → cat 
① 
② (contents) 一袋 yī dài he ate the whole bag! 他把一整袋全吃光了！ 
③ Hunting 猎获物 lièhuòwù to get a good bag 猎获甚丰 
④ slang pejorative (woman) 泼妇 pōfù 
B.  bags noun plural 
① (baggage) 行李 xíngli to pack one's bags 打点行装 figurative 永远离开 yǒngyuǎn líkāi 
② BrE colloquial (lots) 大量 dàliàng bags of …; 很多 ‹money, time›
C.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -gg-) 
① (pack) = bag up 
② BrE colloquial (get) 占有 zhànyǒu ‹seat, food›to bag [something] for [somebody], to bag [somebody] [something] 为某人抢占某物 bags I do/have [something] 就该让我做某事/拥有某物 bags I go first! 我要第一个去！ 
③ colloquial (catch) 捕获 bǔhuò ‹animal, fish›PHRASAL VERB bag up transitive verb [bag something up], [bag up something] 把…装进袋子 bǎ… zhuāngjìn dàizi 
bag 
baɡ

▶noun
1 a container made of flexible material with an opening at the top, used for carrying things: brown paper bags 
a shopping bag. 
• an amount held by a bag: a bag of apples. 
• a woman's handbag or purse. 
• a piece of luggage: she began to unpack her bags. 
• Baseball a base. 
• (bags) informal, chiefly British plenty of something: I had bags of energy.
2 the amount of game shot by a hunter.
3 (usually bags) a loose fold of skin under a person's eye: the bags under his eyes gave him a sad appearance.
4 informal, derogatory a woman, especially an older one, perceived as unpleasant, bad-tempered, or unattractive: an interfering old bag.
5 (one's bag) informal one's particular interest or taste: if religion and politics are your bag, you'll find something to interest you here. 
▶verb (bags, bagging, bagged) [with object]
1 put (something) in a bag: customers bagged their own groceries 
we bagged up the apples.
2 (of a hunter) succeed in killing or catching an animal: in 1979, handgun hunters bagged 677 deer. 
• succeed in securing (something): we've bagged three awards for excellence.
3 [no object] (of clothes, especially pants) hang loosely or lose shape: these trousers never bag at the knee. 
• swell or bulge.
4 North American informal quit; give up on: it was a drag to be in the ninth grade at 17, so he bagged it.
5 North American informal fit (a patient) with an oxygen mask or other respiratory aid. 
PHRASES
bag and baggage with all one's belongings: he threw her out bag and baggage. a bag of bones an emaciated person or animal: the pony is just a bag of bones. a bag (or whole bag) of tricks informal a set of ingenious plans, techniques, or resources: hoteliers are using a whole new bag of tricks to keep their guests on the premises. be left holding the bag see hold1. in the bag informal
1 (of something desirable) as good as secured: the election is in the bag.
2 North American drunk: I don't think my parents even suspected that I was half in the bag.PHRASAL VERBS bag on North American informal criticize: I don't know why everyone is bagging on Palmer.DERIVATIVES bagful 
ˈbaɡˌfo͝ol 
noun (plural bagfuls) ORIGIN Middle English: perhaps from Old Norse baggi .
