balance 
BrE ˈbal(ə)ns, AmE ˈbæləns 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(of body) 平衡 pínghéng to lose/keep one's balance 失去/保持平衡 to throw [somebody] off balance literal 使某人失去平衡 figurative 使某人不知所措 shǐ mǒu rén bù zhī suǒ cuò 
② Uncountable and countable(between different elements) 均衡 jūnhéng political balance 政治上的均势 the right balance of sweetness and spiciness 甜与辣的恰当搭配 to achieve/keep a balance (between [something] and [something]) （在两事物之间）取得/保持平衡 to strike a balance (between [something] and [something]) （在两事物之间）找到折中办法 
③ Uncountable(mental stability) 镇定 zhèndìng 
④ Uncountable(of sound) 协调 xiétiáo 
⑤ Countable(scales) 天平 tiānpíng the balance may still swing in our favour figurative 胜利的天平可能还会朝我们这边倾斜 to be or hang in the balance 悬而未决 on balance 总的说来 
⑥ Countable(in clock, watch) 平衡轮 pínghénglún 
⑦ Uncountable(preponderance) 大部分 dàbùfen the balance of opinion was … 多数人认为… 
⑧ CountableFinance, Busn (in account) 余额 yú'é balance brought forward 余额承前 balance carried forward 余额结转下期 balance in hand 现有余额 
⑨ CountableFinance, Busn (money still owed) 结欠款 jié qiànkuǎn (money still remaining) 余款 yúkuǎn 
⑩ Countable(remaining amount or part) 剩余部分 shèngyú bùfen the balance of [somebody's] annual leave 某人未休的年假 
B.  transitive verb 
① (perch) 使保持平衡 shǐ bǎochí pínghéng he balanced the bottle on top of the heap of stones 他把瓶子在石堆顶上放稳 
② (weigh same as) 和…重量相等 hé… zhòngliàng xiāngděng 
③ (create symmetry with) 与…对称 yǔ… duìchèn you need something to balance the vase on that side 你得找样东西来照应那边的花瓶 
④ balance (out) (compensate for) 和…相抵 hé… xiāngdǐ his lack of experience was balanced by his willingness to learn 他的好学弥补了经验的不足 
⑤ (adjust) 使…均衡 shǐ… jūnhéng ‹composition, diet, timetable›to balance work and family life 兼顾工作与家庭 
⑥ (weigh up, compare) 权衡 quánhéng ‹plans, suggestions, solutions›to balance [something] against [something]; 比较两事物 
⑦ Finance, Busn 使…收支平衡 shǐ… shōuzhī pínghéng ‹expenses, budget, economy›to balance the books 结平账目 
⑧ Auto 使…平衡 shǐ… pínghéng ‹wheels›
⑨ Mathematics 使…平衡 shǐ… pínghéng ‹equation›
C.  intransitive verb 
① (be perched) 保持平衡 bǎochí pínghéng to balance on [something]; 在某物上保持平衡 to balance on one leg 单腿站立 
② (weigh the same) 重量相等 zhòngliàng xiāngděng the scales balance 天平两边的秤盘平衡 
③ balance (out) (be compensated for) 相抵消 xiāng dǐxiāo the advantages and disadvantages balance out 利弊相抵 lìbì xiāngdǐ 
④ Finance «accounts, figures, budget» 收支平衡 shōuzhī pínghéng to make [something] balance, to get [something] to balance 使…收支平衡 shǐ… shōuzhī pínghéng 
⑤ Mathematics «equation, sides» 平衡 pínghéng 
balance 
ˈbaləns

▶noun
1 an even distribution of weight enabling someone or something to remain upright and steady: balance
3 slipping in the mud but keeping their balance 
she lost her balance before falling. 
• stability of one's mind or feelings: the way to some kind of peace and personal balance. 
• Sailing the ability of a boat to stay on course without adjustment of the rudder.
2 a condition in which different elements are equal or in the correct proportions: overseas investments can add balance to an investment portfolio 
[in singular] : try to keep a balance between work and relaxation. 
• Art harmony of design and proportion. 
• [in singular] the relative volume of various sources of sound: the balance of the voices is good.
3 an apparatus for weighing, especially one with a central pivot, beam, and a pair of scales. 
• (the Balance) the zodiacal sign or constellation Libra.
4 a counteracting weight or force. 
• (also balance wheel) the regulating device in a mechanical clock or watch.
5 a predominating weight or amount; the majority: the balance of opinion was that work was more important than leisure.
6 a figure representing the difference between credits and debits in an account; the amount of money held in an account: he accumulated a healthy balance with the savings bank. 
• the difference between an amount due and an amount paid: unpaid credit-card balances. 
• [in singular] an amount left over. 
▶verb [with object]
1 keep or put (something) in a steady position so that it does not fall: a mug that she balanced on her knee. 
• [no object] remain in a steady position without falling: Richard balanced on the ball of one foot.
2 offset or compare the value of (one thing) with another: the cost of obtaining such information needs to be balanced against its benefits. 
• counteract, equal, or neutralize the weight or importance of: he balanced his radical remarks with more familiar declarations. 
• establish equal or appropriate proportions of elements in: balancing work and family life.
3 compare debits and credits in (an account), typically to ensure that they are equal: the law requires the council to balance its books each year. 
• [no object] (of an account) have credits and debits equal. 
PHRASES
balance of payments the difference in total value between payments into and out of a country over a period. balance of power
1 a situation in which nations of the world have roughly equal power.
2 the power held by a small group when larger groups are of equal strength. balance of trade the difference in value between a country's imports and exports. in the balance uncertain; at a critical stage: his survival hung in the balance for days. on balance with all things considered: but on balance he was pleased. strike a balance choose a moderate course or compromise: she's decided to strike a balance between fashionable and accessible.DERIVATIVES balancer 
ˈbalənsər 
nounORIGIN Middle English ( sense
3 of the noun): from Old French balance (noun), balancer (verb), based on late Latin (libra) bilanx ‘(balance) having two scalepans,’ from bi- ‘twice, having two’ + lanx ‘scalepan.’
