ball
1 
BrE bɔːl, AmE bɔl 

A.  noun 
① Sport 球 qiú 
② (rounded object) 团 tuán a ball of clay/string 泥团/细绳团 a ball of fire 火球 to knead dough into a ball 把面揉成团 to curl up into a ball «person, cat» 蜷曲成一团 
③ Sport (single kick or throw) 开球 kāiqiú (other movement) 传球 chuánqiú there are six balls in an over (in cricket) 每一轮有六次投球 
④ Anatomy 球状部位 qiúzhuàng bùwèi the balls of one's feet/thumbs 脚趾球/拇指球 
⑤ figurative (in phrases) to play ball (with [somebody]) （与某人）合作 (yǔ mǒu rén)hézuò to set the ball rolling 开始活动 kāishǐ huódòng to keep the ball rolling 使活动持续进行 shǐ huódòng chíxù jìnxíng to be on the ball (alert) 保持警觉 bǎochí jǐngjué (very able) 非常能干 fēicháng nénggàn the ball is in your court 下一步就看你的了 to keep one's eye on the ball/take one's eye off the ball 保持警觉/放松警觉 bǎochí jǐngjué/fàngsōng jǐngjué that's the way the ball bounces AmE 这是没办法的事 zhè shì méi bànfǎ de shì 
B.  balls noun pluralvulg 
① literal (testicles) 睾丸 gāowán to have [somebody] by the balls figurative 抓住某人的小辫子 to break one's balls to do [something] figurative 拼命干某事 
② figurative (nonsense) 胡说八道 hú shuō bā dào that's a lot or load of balls 那完全是瞎说 
③ figurative (courage) 胆量 dǎnliàng she's got balls 她胆子很大 to have the balls to do [something] 有胆量做某事 
C.  balls exclamation vulg 胡说 húshuō 
D.  transitive verb 
① (clench) 把…捏成球状 bǎ… niēchéng qiúzhuàng ‹fist, napkin›; (wind) 把…绕成团 bǎ… ràochéng tuán ‹wool, string›
② AmE vulg (have sex with) 和…交媾 hé… jiāogòu 
E.  intransitive verb 
① (clench) «fist» 攥成球状 zuànchéng qiúzhuàng 
② AmE vulg (have sex) 交媾 jiāogòu PHRASAL VERB balls up BrE, ball up AmE transitive verbvulg [ball up something], [ball something up] 把…搞得一团糟 bǎ… gǎo de yītuánzāo ‹plan, job›
ball
1 
bôl

▶noun
1 a solid or hollow sphere or ovoid, especially one that is kicked, thrown, or hit in a game: a soccer ball. 
• a ball-shaped object: a ball of wool 
he crushed the card into a ball. 
• historical a solid nonexplosive missile for a firearm. 
• North American a game played with a ball, especially baseball: kids have been playing ball in that lot for almost a hundred years.
2 (in baseball) a pitch delivered outside the strike zone that the batter does not attempt to hit: the umpire called it a ball. 
• (in soccer) a pass of the ball in a specified direction or manner: Whelan sent a long ball to Goddard.
3 (in full the ball of the foot) the rounded protuberant part of the foot at the base of the big toe. 
• (in full the ball of the thumb) the rounded protuberant part of the hand at the base of the thumb. 
▶verb [with object]
1 (usually ball up) squeeze or form (something) into a rounded shape: Robert balled up his napkin and threw it onto his plate. 
• clench or screw up (one's fist) tightly: she balled her fist so that the nails dug into her palms. 
• [no object] form a round shape: the fishing nets eventually ball up and sink. 
• wrap the rootball of (a tree or shrub) in burlap to protect it during transportation.
2 North American vulgar slang have sexual intercourse with. 
PHRASES
balled up entangled; confused: I got slightly balled up in my facts. the ball is in your court it is up to you to make the next move. a ball of fire a person full of energy and enthusiasm. keep the ball rolling maintain the momentum of an activity. keep one's eye on (or take one's eye off) the ball keep (or fail to keep) one's attention focused on the matter in hand. on the ball alert to new ideas, methods, and trends: maintaining contact with customers keeps me on the ball. 
• indicating competence, alertness, or intelligence: a woman like that, with so much on the ball. play ball play a ball game such as baseball: we noticed some youngsters playing ball in a vacant lot. 
• informal work willingly with others; cooperate: if his lawyers won't play ball, there's nothing we can do. 
• Baseball the umpire's command to begin or resume play. start (or get or set) the ball rolling set an activity in motion; make a start: to start the ball rolling, the government was asked to contribute a million dollars to the fund. the whole ball of wax North American informal everything.PHRASAL VERBS ball (British balls) something up bungle something.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old Norse bǫllr, of Germanic origin.
