band 
BrE band, AmE bænd 

A.  noun 
① Music 乐队 yuèduì 
② plus singular or plural verb (group of people) 一帮人 yī bāng rén a small band of troublemakers 一小撮捣乱分子 
③ Radio 波段 bōduàn 
④ (of light, colour, land) 带状物 dàizhuàngwù a band of sunlight 一束阳光 a band of trees 一片树林 
⑤ BrE School, Finance (category) 年龄段 niánlíngduàn he was in the under-16 age band 他属于16岁以下年龄段 
⑥ (strip of material) 细带 xì dài a hair/hat/waist band 发带/帽带/腰带 an arm/a head band 臂箍/头箍 
⑦ BrE School (level) 级 jí 
⑧ (of machine) 传送带 chuánsòngdài 
⑨ AmE (ring) 戒指 jièzhi a wedding band 婚戒 
B.  transitive verb 
① (categorize) 将…分类 jiāng… fēnlèi ; BrE School 把…按能力分班 bǎ… àn nénglì fēn bān 
② (bind, decorate) 给…装上箍 gěi… zhuāngshang gū the doors are banded with iron to make them stronger 在门上装了铁箍使其更牢固 PHRASAL VERB band together intransitive verb 联合起来 liánhé qilai 
band
1 
band

▶noun
1 a flat, thin strip or loop of material put around something, typically to hold it together or to decorate it: wads of banknotes fastened with gummed paper bands. 
• a plain ring for the finger, especially a gold wedding ring: a narrow band of gold was her only jewelry. 
• Ornithology, North American a ring of metal placed around a bird's leg to identify it. 
• (bands) a collar with two hanging strips, worn by certain clerics and academics as part of their formal dress. 
• Mechanics a belt connecting wheels or pulleys.
2 a stripe or elongated area of a different color, texture, or composition than its surroundings: a long, narrow band of cloud.
3 a range of frequencies or wavelengths in a spectrum (especially of radio frequencies): channels in the UHF band.
4 archaic a thing that restrains, binds, or unites. 
▶verb [with object]
1 surround (an object) with something in the form of a strip or ring, typically for reinforcement or decoration: doors are banded with iron to make them stronger. 
• Ornithology, North American put a band on (a bird) for identification.
2 mark (something) with a stripe or stripes of a different color: the bird's bill is banded across the middle with black 
(as adjective banded) : banded agate. ORIGIN late Old English ( sense
4 of the noun), from Old Norse, reinforced in late Middle English by Old French bande, of Germanic origin; related to bind .
