bang 
BrE baŋ, AmE bæŋ 

A.  noun 
① (noise) 突然的巨响 tūrán de jù xiǎng to shut the door with a bang 砰的一声关上门 to go with a bang 很成功 bang go my chances of promotion 我晋升的机会告吹了 
② (knock, blow) 猛击 měng jī a bang on the head 头部受到的撞击 
B.  adverb (exactly) 正好 zhènghǎo ; (absolutely) 完全地 wánquán de to be bang up to date 是最先进的 
C.  exclamation (imitating gun, explosion) 砰 pēng 
D.  transitive verb 
① (place sth. noisily) 砰地一摔 pēng de yī shuāi ‹stick, book›to bang [something] down on [something] 砰地把某物扔在某物上 
② (strike) 猛撞 měng zhuàng to bang one's fist on the table 用拳头猛捶桌子 yòng quántóu měng chuí zhuōzi to bang one's head against a brick wall figurative 徒劳无益 
③ (make noise by hitting) 猛敲 měng qiāo ‹drum, pulpit›
④ (slam) 砰地关上 pēng de guānshang ‹door›
⑤ vulg (have sex with) 和…性交 hé… xìngjiāo ‹woman›
E.  intransitive verb 
① (strike) to bang on [something] 猛击某物 měng jī mǒu wù to bang on the table with one's fist 用拳头猛捶桌子 yòng quántóu měng chuí zhuōzi 
② (make noise) 发出砰的一声 fāchū pēng de yī shēng to bang shut 砰地关上 pēng de guānshang PHRASAL VERBS bang about, bang around 
A.  intransitive verb 乒乓作响地闹腾 pīngpāng zuòxiǎng de nàoteng 
B.  transitive verb [bang something about] 乒乓作响地四处扔 pīngpāng zuòxiǎng de sìchù rēng stop banging your toys about 不要把你的玩具扔来丢去 bang down transitive verb [bang something down, bang down something] 砰地放下 pēng de fàngxia ‹window›; 砰地扔下 pēng de rēngxia ‹book, telephone receiver›; 砰地捶下 pēng de chuíxia ‹fist›bang into transitive verb[bang into something] «person, car» 猛地撞上 měng de zhuàngshang bang on intransitive verb colloquial to bang on about [something]; 唠叨某事 láodao mǒu shì bang out transitive verb[bang out something], [bang something out] 响亮地奏出 xiǎngliàng de zòuchū ‹tune›bang up transitive verb[bang somebody up], [bang up somebody] slang 把…关进监狱 bǎ… guānjìn jiānyù to be banged up for five years 坐了5年牢 
bang
1 
baNG

▶noun
1 a sudden loud noise: the door slammed with a bang 
I heard a series of loud bangs. 
• a sharp blow causing a sudden loud noise: I went to answer a bang on the front door. 
• a sudden painful blow: a nasty bang on the head.
2 (bangs) North American a fringe of hair cut straight across the forehead: she brushed back her wispy bangs. [from a use of the adverb bang to mean ‘abruptly.’]
3 vulgar slang an act of sexual intercourse.
4 Computing, chiefly North American the character “!” 
▶verb [with object]
1 strike or put down (something) forcefully and noisily, typically in anger or in order to attract attention: he began to bang the table with his fist 
Sarah banged the phone down 
[no object] : someone was banging on the door. 
• come into contact with (something) suddenly and sharply, typically by accident: I banged my head on the low beams 
[no object] : she banged into some shelves in the darkness. 
• [no object] make a sudden loud noise, typically repeatedly: the shutter was banging in the wind. 
• (with reference to a door) open or close violently and noisily: [with object and complement] : he banged the kitchen door shut behind him 
[no object, with complement] : the door banged open and a man staggered out. 
• [no object] (of a person) move around or do something noisily, especially as an indication of anger or irritation: she was banging around the kitchen. 
• (of a sports player) hit (a ball or a shot) forcefully and successfully: in his second start he banged out two hits. 
• vulgar slang (typically used of a man) have sexual intercourse with.
2 North American cut (hair) in a fringe. 
▶adverb informal, chiefly British exactly: bang in the middle of town. 
• completely: bring your wardrobe bang up to date. 
▶exclam.
1 used to express or imitate the sound of a sudden loud noise: firecrackers went bang 
Bang, Bang! You're dead.
2 used to convey the suddenness of an action or process: the minute something becomes obsolete, bang, it's gone. 
PHRASES
bang for one's (or the) buck US informal value for money; performance for cost: this cross between a sports car and a family sedan gave a lot of bang for the buck. bang (or knock or crack) people's heads together see head. get a bang out of North American informal derive excitement or pleasure from: some people get a bang out of reading that stuff. with a bang
1 abruptly: the remark brought me down to earth with a bang.
2 impressively or spectacularly: the occasion went with a bang 
the day starts with a bang—the steep climb to the mountain top.PHRASAL VERBS bang away at informal do something in a persistent or dogged way: he was banging away at his novel. bang something out informal
1 play music noisily, enthusiastically, and typically unskillfully: Dad was annihilating a Beethoven sonata, banging out notes.
2 produce hurriedly or in great quantities: they weren't banging out ads in my day the way they are now. bang someone/something up North American informal damage or injure someone or something: he banged up his knee. 
• British informal imprison someone: they've been banged up for something they didn't do.ORIGIN mid 16th century: imitative, perhaps of Scandinavian origin; compare with Old Norse bang ‘hammering.’
