bank
1 
BrE baŋk, AmE bæŋk 

A.  noun 
① Countable(of river, lake) 岸 àn 
② Countable(mound, pile) 堆 duī a bank of snow 一堆雪 
③ Countable(slope) (of hill etc.) 斜坡 xiépō (of road or racetrack) 边坡 biānpō 
④ Countable(section of sea bed) 浅滩 qiǎntān a sand bank 沙洲 
⑤ Countable(mass) 大量 dàliàng a bank of thick cloud 厚厚的云层 
⑥ Countable(embankment) 路堤 lùdī 
⑦ UncountableAviation （拐弯时的）向内侧倾斜 (guǎiwān shí de)xiàng nèicè qīngxié 
⑧ Countable(of switches, electrical equipment etc.) 组 zǔ 
B.  transitive verb 
① (pile up) bank (up) 堆积 duījī ‹snow, mud›
② (border) to be banked by [something]; «road, river» 被某物像堤岸般围住 bèi mǒu wù xiàng dī'àn bān wéizhù the canal is banked on one side by high buildings 运河的一边高楼林立 
③ Aviation 使…转弯时倾斜飞行 shǐ… zhuǎnwān shí qīngxié fēixíng ‹aeroplane›
④ (slope) bank (up) 使…的转弯处向内侧倾斜 shǐ… de zhuǎnwānchù xiàng nèicè qīngxié ‹road, racetrack›
⑤ (dam) bank (up) 在…上筑堤 zài… shang zhù dī ‹river›
⑥ (on a fire) 封 fēng to bank (up) the fire 压火 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (pile up) to bank (up) «snow, mud» 堆积 duījī 
② Aviation 转弯时倾斜飞行 zhuǎnwānshí qīngxié fēixíng 
bank
1 
baNGk

▶noun
1 the land alongside or sloping down to a river or lake: willows lined the bank.
2 a slope, mass, or mound of a particular substance: a bank of clouds 
a bank of snow. 
• an elevation in the seabed or a riverbed; a mudbank or sandbank. 
• a transverse slope given to a road, railroad, or sports track to enable vehicles or runners to maintain speed around a curve. 
• the sideways tilt of an aircraft when turning in flight: flying with small amounts of bank.
3 a set or series of similar things, especially electrical or electronic devices, grouped together in rows: the DJ had big banks of lights and speakers on either side of his console. 
• a tier of oars: the early ships had only twenty-five oars in each bank.
4 the cushion of a pool table: [as modifier] : a bank shot. 
▶verb [with object]
1 heap (a substance) into a mass or mound: the rain banked the soil up behind the gate 
snow was banked in humps at the roadside. 
• [no object] rise or form into a mass or mound: purple clouds banked up over the hills. 
• heap (a fire) with tightly packed fuel so that it burns slowly: she could have made a fire and banked it with dirt. 
• edge or surround with a ridge or row of something: steps banked with pots of chrysanthemums.
2 (of an aircraft or vehicle) tilt or cause to tilt sideways in making a turn: [no object] : the plane banked as if to return to the airport 
[with object] : I banked the aircraft steeply and turned. 
• [no object] build (a road, railroad, or sports track) higher at the outer edge of a bend to facilitate fast cornering.
3 North American (in pool and other games) play (a ball) so that it rebounds off a surface such as a backboard or cushion. ORIGIN Middle English: from Old Norse bakki, of Germanic origin; related to bench. The senses ‘set of similar things in sloping rows’ and ‘tier of oars’ are from French banc, of the same ultimate origin.
