bar 
BrE bɑː, AmE bɑr 
A. noun 
① (strip of wood, metal) 长条 chángtiáo the gate had a bar across it 大门上着门闩 behind bars 在狱中 
② (block) (of soap, chocolate etc.) 块 kuài a bar of gold 一根金条 
③ (place for drinking) 酒吧 jiǔbā 
④ (counter) 吧台 bātái 
⑤ (obstacle) 障碍 zhàng'ài a bar on people coming here to live 人们来这里居住的障碍 
⑥ Law (in court) the bar 围栏 wéilán the prisoner at the bar 受审讯的刑事被告 
⑦ the Bar Law (profession) 大律师职业 dàlǜshī zhíyè to be called to the Bar 获得大律师资格 
⑧ BrE Sport (crossbar) 球门横梁 qiúmén héngliáng 
⑨ Music 小节 xiǎojié 
⑩ BrE (in electric fire) 供热电阻丝 gōngrè diànzǔsī 
⑪ (of light, colour) 带 dài bars of sunlight 一道道阳光 a bar of red across the sky 横贯天空的一抹红 
B.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -rr-) 
① (fasten) 闩上 shuānshang ‹door›
② (block) 阻挡 zǔdǎng ‹way›the police barred the entrance 警察封锁了入口 
③ (exclude) 禁止 jìnzhǐ to bar [somebody] from doing [something]; 禁止某人做某事 a no holds barred contest 激烈的竞争 
C.  preposition 除…外 chú… wài they all turned up to the party bar one 除一人缺席外，他们都出席了晚会 bar none 没有例外地 
bar 
▶noun
1 an iron bar: rod, pole, stick, batten, shaft, rail, paling, spar, strut, crosspiece, beam.
2 a bar of chocolate: block, slab, cake, tablet, brick, loaf, wedge, ingot.
3 your drinks are on the bar: counter, table, buffet, stand.
4 she had a drink in a bar: tavern, cocktail lounge, barroom, taproom, pub, after-hours club, lounge, nightclub, speakeasy, roadhouse, beer hall, boîte, club, inn, rathskeller, cantina, bodega; singles bar, sports bar; informal watering hole, gin mill, dive, nineteenth hole; British public house; historical saloon, alehouse.
5 a bar to promotion: obstacle, impediment, hindrance, obstruction, block, hurdle, barrier, stumbling block. ANTONYMS aid.
6 members of the Bar: lawyers, barristers, advocates, counsel, counselors; chiefly British solicitors.
7 the bar across the river mouth: sandbar, sandbank, shoal, shallow, reef.
▶verb
1 they have barred the door: bolt, lock, fasten, secure, block, barricade, obstruct. ANTONYMS open, unlock.
2 I was barred from entering: prohibit, debar, preclude, forbid, ban, interdict, inhibit; exclude, keep out; obstruct, hinder, block; Law enjoin. ANTONYMS accept, admit.
▶preposition everyone bar me. See except (preposition) . 
