bare 
BrE bɛː, AmE bɛr 

A.  adjective 
① (naked) 裸露的 luǒlù de ‹body, blade›to walk with bare feet 赤脚走路 to sit in the sun with one's head bare 不戴帽坐在太阳底下 bare to the waist 赤膊的 with one's bare hands 赤手空拳地 
② (exposed) 无遮盖的 wúzhēgài de to strip [something] down to the bare bones 去除某事物的枝节 bare walls 没有装饰的墙壁 he laid bare their evil plan 他揭露了他们的恶毒计划 to lay one's soul or heart bare 袒露心扉 
③ (empty) 空的 kōng de ‹cupboard, room›the burglars stripped the house bare 窃贼将房子洗劫一空 
④ (stark) 光秃秃的 guāngtūtū de ‹mountain, tree›a barren landscape which was bare of almost every sign of life 几乎毫无生命迹象的不毛之地 
⑤ (mere) 仅仅的 jǐnjǐn de a bare 3%/20 dollars 仅仅3％/区区20美元 to last a bare 30 seconds 持续了只不过30秒钟 
⑥ (just sufficient) 刚够的 gāng gòu de the bare minimum 最低限度 the bare essentials or necessities 最低限度的必需品 
⑦ (unembellished) 不加掩饰的 bù jiā yǎnshì de ‹facts›
B.  transitive verb 裸露 luǒlù ‹part of body›; 袒露 tǎnlù ‹heart, soul›to bare one's teeth 龇牙咧嘴 to bare one's head 脱帽致敬 to bare all 袒胸露体 to bare one's heart or soul to [somebody] 向某人袒露心扉 
bare 
ber

▶adjective
1 (of a person or part of the body) not clothed or covered: he was bare from the waist up 
she padded in bare feet toward the door. 
• without the appropriate, usual, or natural covering: a clump of bare aspen trees 
bare floorboards. 
• without the appropriate or usual contents: a bare cell with just a mattress. 
• unconcealed; without disguise: an ordeal that would lay bare a troubled family background.
2 without addition; basic and simple: he outlined the bare essentials of the story 
a strange, bare production of Twelfth Night. 
• [attributive] only just sufficient: a bare majority. 
• [attributive] surprisingly small in number or amount: all you need to get started with this program is a bare 10K bytes of memory. 
▶verb [with object] uncover (a part of the body or other thing) and expose it to view: he bared his chest to show his scar. 
▶det. British informal a large amount or number of: I've got bare work to do. 
▶adverb [as submodifier] British informal very; really (used as an intensifier): that girl is bare lazy. 
PHRASES
bare all take off all of one's clothes and display oneself to others: Lysette bared all for Playboy in 1988. the bare bones the basic facts about something, without any detail: the bare bones of the plot. bare of without: the interior, bare of plaster, leaked a smell of old timbers. bare one's soul reveal one's innermost secrets and feelings to someone. bare one's teeth show one's teeth, typically when angry. with one's bare hands without using tools or weapons.DERIVATIVES bareness 
ˈbernəs 
nounORIGIN Old English bær (noun), barian (verb), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch baar .
