bargain 
BrE ˈbɑːɡɪn, AmE ˈbɑrɡən 

A.  noun 
① (deal) 协议 xiéyì to make or strike a bargain 达成协议 to keep one's side of the bargain 遵守自己的诺言 to drive a hard bargain 极力讨价还价 
② (good buy) 便宜货 piányihuò what a bargain! 真便宜啊！ to get a bargain 买到便宜货 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (for deal) 讲条件 jiǎng tiáojiàn to bargain with [somebody] (over or for [something]); （就某事物）与某人商谈 
② (over price) 讨价还价 tǎo jià huán jià to bargain for a lower price 砍价 to bargain with [somebody] (over or for [something]); （就某事物）与某人讨价还价 
③ (expect) to bargain for or on [something]; 预料到某事物 yùliào dào mǒu shìwù we got more than we bargained for 我们得到的超过了我们的预期 I didn't really bargain on this happening 我真的没料到会发生这事 
bargain 
ˈbärɡən

▶noun
1 an agreement between two or more parties as to what each party will do for the other: the extraconstitutional bargain between the northern elite and the southern planters.
2 a thing bought or offered for sale more cheaply than is usual or expected: the secondhand table was a real bargain 
[as modifier] : household and electrical goods at bargain prices. 
▶verb [no object] negotiate the terms and conditions of a transaction: he bargained with the city council to rent the stadium 
(as noun bargaining) : many statutes are passed by political bargaining. 
• [with object] (bargain something away) part with something after negotiation but get little or nothing in return: his determination not to bargain away any of the province's existing economic powers. 
• (bargain for/on) be prepared for; expect: I got more information than I'd bargained for 
he didn't bargain on this storm. 
PHRASES
drive a hard bargain be uncompromising in making a deal. into (or in) the bargain in addition to what was expected; moreover: an upstate yokel and a raving paranoiac into the bargain. keep one's side of the bargain carry out the promises one has made as part of an agreement. strike a bargain make a bargain; agree to a deal.DERIVATIVES bargainer 
ˈbärɡ(ə)nər 
nounORIGIN Middle English: from Old French bargaine (noun), bargaignier (verb); probably of Germanic origin and related to German borgen ‘borrow.’
