barrel 
BrE ˈbar(ə)l, AmE ˈbɛrəl 

A.  noun 
① (for wine, beer) 桶 tǒng to have [somebody] over a barrel figurative 使某人听从摆布 to scrape the bottom of the barrel figurative 退而求其次 a barrel of laughs/fun colloquial 十分开心/有趣 
② (measure of capacity) 一桶 yī tǒng 
③ (of cannon) 炮管 pàoguǎn ; (of firearm) 枪管 qiāngguǎn to give [somebody] both barrels literal 用双管猎枪向某人射击 figurative 猛烈抨击某人 měngliè pēngjī mǒu rén lock, stock, and barrel 全部 they had to move house lock, stock, and barrel 他们得把房子里的东西全都搬走 
④ (of fountain pen) 笔杆 bǐgǎn 
⑤ (of watch, clock) 发条盒 fātiáohé 
⑥ (of lock) 锁芯 suǒxīn 
B.  transitive verb (present participle etc. -ll- BrE, -l- AmE ) 把…装桶 bǎ… zhuāng tǒng ‹wine, oil›
C.  intransitive verb (present participle etc. -ll- BrE, -l- AmE ) to barrel along AmE colloquial 高速行驶 gāosù xíngshǐ 
barrel 
ˈberəl

▶noun
1 a cylindrical container bulging out in the middle, traditionally made of wooden staves with metal hoops around them. 
• a barrel together with its contents: a barrel of beer. 
• a measure of capacity used for oil and beer. It is usually equal to 36 imperial gallons for beer and 35 imperial gallons or 42 US gallons (roughly 159 liters) for oil.
2 a tube forming part of an object such as a gun or a pen.
3 the belly and loins of a four-legged animal such as a horse. 
▶verb (barrels, barreling, barreled; British barrels, barrelling, barrelled)
1 [no object] informal, chiefly North American drive or move fast, often heedless of surroundings or conditions: we barreled across the Everglades 
barreling along the Ventura freeway.
2 [with object] put into a barrel or barrels. 
PHRASES
a barrel of laughs [often with negative] informal a source of fun or amusement: life is not exactly a barrel of laughs at the moment. on the barrel (of payment) without delay: I gotta be paid cash on the barrel. over a barrel informal in a helpless position; at someone's mercy. with both barrels informal with unrestrained force or emotion.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French baril, from medieval Latin barriclus ‘small cask.’
