bat
1 
BrE bat, AmE bæt 

A.  noun 
① (in cricket, table tennis) 球板 qiúbǎn (in baseball) 球棒 qiúbàng to do [something] off one's own bat 主动做某事 off the bat AmE 毫不犹豫地 
② BrE colloquial (speed) 速度 sùdù he disappeared at a tremendous bat 他飞快地消失了 
③ (cudgel) 短棍 duǎn gùn 
B.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -tt-) 
① to bat one's eyelids or eyes 眨眼 zhǎyǎn without batting an eyelid or eye figurative 连眼睛都不眨一下 
② (hit) 击打 jīdǎ 
C.  intransitive verb (present participle etc. -tt-) 用球板击球 yòng qiúbǎn jī qiú to go to bat for [somebody] figurative especially AmE colloquial 支持某人 PHRASAL VERB bat around transitive verb [bat something around, bat around something] 详细讨论 xiángxì tǎolùn ‹idea, proposal›
bat
1 
bat

▶noun an implement with a handle and a solid surface, usually of wood, used for hitting the ball in games such as baseball, cricket, and table tennis. 
• the person batting, especially in cricket: the team's opening bat. 
• each of a pair of objects resembling table tennis bats, used by a person on the ground to guide a taxiing aircraft. 
▶verb (bats, batting, batted)
1 [no object] (of a team or a player in sports such as baseball) take in turns the role of hitting rather than fielding: Ruth came to bat in the fifth inning.
2 [with object] hit at (someone or something) with the palm of one's hand: he batted the flies away. 
PHRASES
bat a thousand informal be very successful; achieve perfection: with the tortellini, I batted a thousand—both kids had seconds. bat for the other team (or side) humorous be homosexual: I'm sorry to break the news to you ladies but I think he may bat for the other team.go to bat for informal, chiefly North American defend the interests of; support: his willingness to go to bat for his employees. right off the bat North American at the very beginning.PHRASAL VERBS bat around (or about) informal, chiefly North American travel widely, frequently, or casually: I'm always batting around between England and America.bat something around (or about) informal discuss an idea or proposal casually or idly.ORIGIN late Old English batt ‘club, stick, staff,’ perhaps partly from Old French batte, from battre ‘to strike.’
