be 
BrE biː, AmE bi
(present tense I am, he/she/it is, you/we/they are; past tense I/he/she/it was, you/we/they were; present participle being; past participle been) 
A.  copular verb 
① (indicating quality or attribute) [表明属性]I'm married 我结婚了 he is being nice to them 他现在对他们很好 she is an Italian 她是意大利人 he'll be a big boy by now 他现在该是个大小伙子了 
② (indicating state, conditions, circumstances) [表明状态]to be ill 生病 the weather was freezing 天气极冷 it was still light outside 外面还很亮 
③ (identifying the subject) [表明主题]he is the person I was speaking about 他就是我提到的那个人 is this Manchester? 这里是曼彻斯特吗？ this book is your uncle's 这本书是你叔叔的 
④ (indicating occupation, status) (pursue a profession) 从事…职业 cóngshì… zhíyè (pursue a pastime) 有…消遣 yǒu… xiāoqiǎn (have a role in organization, society) 担任…职位 dānrèn… zhíwèi (have a title) 拥有…头衔 yōngyǒu… tóuxián to be a teacher 当老师 he is Primate of All Ireland 他是全爱尔兰首席大主教 they were both keen tennis players 他们两个都爱打网球 
⑤ (play the role of) 扮演 bànyǎn I was Juliet in the school play 在校园剧中，我扮演了朱丽叶 
⑥ (giving more information) [提供信息]the fact is that I'm too old 事实是我太老了 the snag was, the tide was out 问题是，退潮了 
⑦ (giving time, date, age) [表示时间、年龄]it's six o'clock 现在6点钟 it was midnight before we got home 午夜过后我们才到家 our house is over 100 years old 我们的房子有100多年了 
⑧ (giving cost) 值 zhí (giving weight, measurement) 有 yǒu how much are those eggs? 这些鸡蛋多少钱？ how tall is she? 她有多高？ it was three degrees below zero 那时气温为零下3度 
⑨ Mathematics (equal) «unit, measurement» 等于 děngyú (represent) «variable, symbol» 表示 biǎoshì two times three is six 二乘三等于六 let x be
3 设x为3 
⑩ (comprise) «place, structure» 由…组成 yóu… zǔchéng London is not England 伦敦不是英格兰的全部 
⑪ (mean) 意味着 yìwèizhe he was everything to her 对她而言，他就是一切 £500,000 is nothing to him 50万英镑对他毫无意义 
⑫ (in tag questions, short answers) [用于附加疑问成分及简短回答]their house is lovely, isn't it? 他们的房子很漂亮，对吧？ are you a doctor? — no, I'm not 你是医生吗？──不，我不是 you're not going out tonight? — yes, I am 你今晚不出去吧？──不，我要出去的 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (exist) 存在 cúnzài can such things be? 会有这样的事情吗？ I think, therefore I am 我思故我在 to be or not to be 生存还是死亡 Miss Jones as was (before marrying) 婚前名琼斯小姐 (before a change in name) 曾用名琼斯小姐 
② (remain in the same state) 保持原状 bǎochí yuánzhuàng ; (remain in the same place) 留在原地 liú zài yuándì let it be 随它去 let the poor dog be! 别招惹这条可怜的狗！ 
③ (indicating time taken) 持续 chíxù how long has he been here? 他在这儿待了多长时间了？ how long will dinner be? 晚饭什么时候才会好啊？ I shan't be a moment 我一会儿就好 
④ (indicating place) 在 zài he's upstairs 他在楼上 Hungary is in the heart of Europe 匈牙利位于欧洲的中心 who's in the movie? 谁出演这部电影？ 
⑤ (happen, take place) 发生 fāshēng the concert is tomorrow 音乐会明天举行 they made plans to marry, but it was not to be 他们本来计划要结婚的，但却不了了之 
⑥ (go) 去 qù (come) 来 lái be off with you! 滚一边儿去！ I'm off home 我要回家了 is this the bus for London? 这是去伦敦的公交车吗？ you've really been (and gone) and done it now! BrE colloquial 你居然真的做了这事！ 
⑦ (on visit etc.) 造访 zàofǎng have you ever been to London? 你去过伦敦吗？ has anyone been? (called at house etc.) 有人来过吗？ 
⑧ (in phrases) so be it 那就这样吧 nà jiù zhèyàng ba as it is/was 像原来一样 xiàng yuánlái yīyàng 
C.  auxiliary verb 
① (forming passive) [构成被动语态]the child was found (by the search party) 孩子（被搜索队）找到了 
② (forming continuous tenses) [构成进行时](active) the train was departing when I got there 我到达的时候，列车正要开出 (passive) the house is being built 房子正在建造 
③ (forming future) [构成将来时]the plane is leaving tomorrow at midday 飞机明天中午起飞 when are you seeing her? 你什么时候见她？ 
D.  to be to 
① (expressing obligation) [表明责任]I am to inform you that … formal 我特此通知你… you are to report to the police 你必须向警方报到 I am not to be disturbed 不许打扰我 
② (expressing future or arrangement) [表示将来计划]the Queen is to arrive at
3 p.m. 女王定于下午3点到达 he was to arrive or have arrived last Monday 他上周一就该到了 
③ (expressing possibility) [表示可能性]what are we to do? 我们能做什么呢？ he wasn't to know 他不可能知道 if reports are to be believed, he's going to resign 如果报道可信的话，那么他将会辞职 
④ (expressing destiny) [表示必然性]they were never to meet again 他们注定再也无法见面了 the empire was to collapse a century later 帝国在一个世纪之后还是瓦解了 
E.  -to-be combining form 未来的 wèilái de her husbandbe 她的未婚夫 a motherbe 准妈妈 
be 
bē

▶verb (singular present am 
am
; are 
är
; is 
iz
; plural present are; first and third singular past was 
wəz, wäz
; second singular past and plural past were 
wər
; present subjunctive be; past subjunctive were; present participle being 
ˈbēiNG
; past participle been 
bin
)
1 (usually there is/are) exist: there are no easy answers 
there once was a man 
there must be something wrong 
I think, therefore I am. 
• be present: there is a boy sitting on the step 
there were no curtains around the showers 
Are there any castles in this area?
2 [with adverbial] occur; take place: the exhibition will be in November 
the opening event is on October
16 
that was before the war. 
• occupy a position in space: the Salvation Army store was on his left 
she was not at the window. 
• stay in the same place or condition: she was here until about ten-thirty 
he's a tough customer—let him be. 
• attend: the days when she was in school. 
• come; go; visit: he's from Missouri 
I have just been to Thailand 
the doctor's been here twice today.
3 [as copular verb] having the state, quality, identity, nature, role, etc., specified: Amy was 91 
the floor was uneven 
I want to be a teacher 
father was not well 
his hair's brown 
it will be Christmas soon 
“Be careful,” Mr. Carter said. 
• cost: the tickets were $25. 
• amount to: one and one is two 
two sixes are twelve. 
• represent: let A be a square matrix of order n. 
• signify: we were everything to each other. 
• consist of; constitute: the monastery was several three-story buildings.
4 informal say: when I got there, they were like “What are you doing here?” 
▶aux. verb
1 used with a present participle to form continuous tenses: they are coming 
he had been reading 
she will be waiting.
2 used with a past participle to form the passive mood: it was done 
it is said 
his book will be published.
3 [with infinitive] used to indicate something due to happen: construction is to begin next summer 
I was to meet him at 6:30. 
• used to express obligation or necessity: you are to follow these orders 
they said I was to remain on board. 
• used to express possibility: these snakes are to be found in North America 
she was nowhere to be seen. 
• used to hypothesize about something that might happen: if I were to lose 
if I was to tell you, you'd think I was crazy 
were she to cure me, what could I offer her?
4 archaic used with the past participle of intransitive verbs to form perfect tenses: I am returned 
all humanity is fallen. 
PHRASES
as/that was archaic as someone or something was previously called: General Dunstaple had married Miss Hughes that was. the be-all and end-all informal a feature of an activity or a way of life that is of greater importance than any other. be oneself act naturally, according to one's character and instincts. be that as it may see may1. been there, done that see there. not be oneself not feel well. -to-be [in combination] of the future: my bride-to-be.PHRASAL VERBS be about see about. be off go away; leave: he was anxious to be off.ORIGIN Old English bēon, an irregular and defective verb, whose full conjugation derives from several originally distinct verbs. The forms am and is are from an Indo-European root shared by Latin sum and est. The forms was and were are from an Indo-European root meaning ‘remain.’ The forms be and been are from an Indo-European root shared by Latin fui ‘I was,’ fio ‘I become’ and Greek phuein ‘bring forth, cause to grow.’ The origin of are is uncertain. usage: For a discussion of whether it is correct to say that must be he at the door and it is I rather than that must be him at the door and it is me, see usage at personal pronoun .
