beam 
BrE biːm, AmE bim 

A.  noun 
① (of light) 光柱 guāngzhù the car headlights are on full beam 汽车的前灯大开着 
② Physics 束 shù 
③ Construction 梁 liáng 
④ (in gymnastics) 平衡木 pínghéngmù to score top marks on the beam 在平衡木项目上得了最高分 
⑤ (of weighing scales) 杠杆 gànggǎn 
⑥ Aviation, Nautical (radio or radar course) 射束指示的航道 shè shù zhǐshì de hángdào to be off beam figurative 不对头 
⑦ Nautical (cross-member) 船舷 chuánxián (greatest width) 船宽 chuán kuān on the port/starboard beam 在左/右舷正横方向 to be broad in the beam figurative humorous 臀部肥大 
⑧ (smile) 笑容 xiàoróng 
B.  transitive verb 
① Radio, Television, Telecommunications 定向传送 dìngxiàng chuánsòng ‹signal, information›the concert was beamed all over the world 音乐会向全世界转播 
② figurative (smile) 以微笑表示 yǐ wēixiào biǎoshì his father beamed his congratulations 他父亲微笑着表示祝贺 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (emit light, heat) «sun, moon» 照耀 zhàoyào 
② (smile) 笑容满面 xiàoróng mǎnmiàn to beam with pleasure 高兴得笑容满面 
beam 
bēm

▶noun
1 a long, sturdy piece of squared timber or metal spanning an opening or part of a building, usually to support the roof or floor above. 
• another term for balance beam. 
• a horizontal piece of squared timber or metal supporting the deck and joining the sides of a ship. 
• Nautical the direction of an object visible from the port or starboard side of a ship when it is perpendicular to the center line of the vessel: there was land in sight on the port beam. 
• a ship's breadth at its widest point: a cutter with a beam of
16 feet. 
• [in singular] informal the width of a person's hips: notice how broad in the beam she's getting? 
• the main stem of a stag's antler. 
• the crossbar of a balance. 
• (especially in a stationary steam engine) an oscillating shaft through which the vertical piston movement is transmitted to the crank or pump. 
• historical the main timber of a horse-drawn plow.
2 a ray or shaft of light: a beam of light flashed in front of her 
the flashlight beam dimmed perceptibly. 
• a directional flow of particles or radiation: beams of electrons. 
• a series of radio or radar signals emitted to serve as a navigational guide for ships or aircraft.
3 [in singular] a radiant or good-natured look or smile: a beam of satisfaction. 
▶verb
1 [with object] transmit (a radio signal or broadcast) in a specified direction: beaming a distress signal into space 
[no object] : the TV station begins beaming into homes in the new year. 
• (beam someone up/down) (in science fiction) transport someone instantaneously to another place, especially to or from a spaceship: Scotty, beam me up! [phrase from the television series Star Trek.]
2 [no object] (of a light or light source) shine brightly: the sun's rays beamed down.
3 [no object] smile radiantly: she beamed with pleasure 
(as adjective beaming) : a beaming smile. 
• [with object] express (an emotion) with a radiant smile: the teacher beamed her approval 
[with direct speech] : “Isn't that wonderful, Beatrice?” beamed the nun.
4 (beamed) construct a ceiling with exposed beams: vaulted beamed ceilings in the family room. 
PHRASES
a beam in one's eye a fault that is greater in oneself than in the person one is finding fault with. [with biblical allusion to Matt. 7:3.] off (or way off) beam informal on the wrong track; mistaken: you're way off beam on this one. on the beam informal on the right track. on her (or its) beam-ends (of a ship) heeled over on its side; almost capsized.ORIGIN Old English bēam ‘tree, beam’; related to Dutch boom and German Baum .
