beat 
BrE biːt, AmE bit 

A.  transitive verb(past tense beat, past participle beaten) 
① (strike) 击打 jīdǎ ‹person, animal›to beat [somebody]/[something] to death 打死某人/某动物 to beat [somebody] into submission 打得某人屈服 to beat [somebody] black and blue 把某人打得鼻青脸肿 to beat a bit of respect into [somebody] 迫使某人学会对人尊重一点 to beat grammar into [somebody's] head 给某人灌输语法知识 
② (strike with tool, part of body) 锤打 chuídǎ ‹metal›; 拍打 pāida ‹carpet›; 敲打 qiāodǎ ‹door›; «bird, animal» 拍打 pāida ‹air, ground›to beat [something] into shape 把某物打造成型 
③ (cause to strike) 用…打 yòng… dǎ he beat his fists against the door 他用拳头砸门 
④ Music (produce sound on) 敲 qiāo ‹drum, gong›
⑤ Music (indicate rhythm) 打 dǎ ‹rhythm›to beat time (with [something]) （用某物）打拍子 
⑥ Military «drummer» 敲奏出 qiāozòu chū ‹tattoo, signal› → retreat 
A. 
①, 
A. 
② 
⑦ (mix vigorously) 快速搅拌 kuàisù jiǎobàn ‹cream, mixture›beat the eggs 打蛋 to beat [something] into [something]; 将某物搅拌入某物 
⑧ Hunting [为惊起猎物而] 拍打 pāida ‹undergrowth›
⑨ (create route by walking) 踏出 tàchū ‹path› → path 
① 
⑩ (make way by removing obstacles) 辟出 pìchū to beat a path through the jungle 在丛林中开出一条路 to beat one's way through the onlookers 从旁观的人群中挤过去 
⑪ to beat it colloquial (leave quickly) 走开 zǒukāi we decided to beat it 我们决定溜之大吉 
⑫ (flap) 拍打 pāida the bird/insect beat its wings 鸟/昆虫拍动翅膀 
⑬ (defeat) 打败 dǎbài ‹opponent, team, army›to be beaten at [something] 输掉某事 if you can't beat 'em, join 'em proverb humorous 打不赢，就投靠 
⑭ (overcome) 解决…问题 jiějué… wèntí ‹unemployment, child abuse, inflation›; 战胜 zhànshèng ‹illness›to beat heroin addiction 戒掉海洛因毒瘾 
⑮ (do or be better than) 超过 chāoguò ‹target, score›to beat the record 打破纪录 beat that (if you can)! 有本事你来试试！ that beats everything! 真是绝无仅有！ you can't beat Italian shoes 意大利的皮鞋无与伦比 
⑯ (baffle) «problem, puzzle» 难倒 nándǎo ‹person›a mystery that beats even the experts 连专家都解不开的谜 to have [somebody] beat colloquial or beaten 难住某人 why did he leave? — beats me colloquial 他为什么离开了？──我说不上来 
⑰ AmE colloquial (be acquitted of) 逃避 táobì ‹rap, charge›
⑱ (arrive before) 抢先 qiǎngxiān he beat me to the door 他抢在我之前到了门口 to beat [somebody] to the altar 比某人早结婚 to beat [somebody] to it 比某人抢先一步 
⑲ (avoid) 避免 bìmiǎn to beat the rush hour 避开交通高峰时段 
B.  intransitive verb(past tense beat, past participle beaten) 
① (collide) to beat against/on [something]; «waves» 拍打 pāida ‹shore, cliff› «rain» 击打 jīdǎ ‹window, face›
② (strike repeatedly) to beat at or on [something]; 接连击打 ‹door› 接连扑打 jiēlián pūdǎ ‹flames›
③ Physiology «heart, pulse» 跳动 tiàodòng 
④ (make sound) «drum» 敲响 qiāoxiǎng drums beating in the distance 远处的鼓声 
⑤ (flap) «wings» 扑扇 pūshān 
⑥ Hunting [为惊起猎物而] 拍打树丛等 pāida shùcóng děng 
⑦ Nautical «person, boat» 以“之”字形抢风航行 yǐ “ zhī ” zìxíng qiǎng fēng hángxíng to beat to windward 抢上风航行 
C.  noun 
① (hitting sound) 敲击声 qiāojī shēng the beat of the drums 鼓声 
② Music (rhythm) 节奏 jiézòu (in bar) 节拍 jiépāi to follow or keep to the beat 跟上节奏 
③ (in poetry) 强音 qiángyīn 
④ (of heart, pulse) 跳动 tiàodòng [somebody's] heart misses or skips a beat 某人的心里咯噔一下 
⑤ Physics 拍音 pāi yīn 
⑥ (in policing) (area) 辖区 xiáqū (route) 巡逻路线 xúnluó lùxiàn a policeman on the beat 巡警 
⑦ (area or route worked) 负责区域 fùzé qūyù the journalist's beat 记者的采访区域 
⑧ (field of interest) 专长 zhuāncháng to be off [somebody's] beat 非某人本行 
D.  adjective predicative colloquial 筋疲力尽的 jīn pí lì jìn de I'm (dead) beat 我累垮了 PHRASAL VERBS beat back transitive verb [beat somebody/something back, beat back somebody/something] 击退 jītuì ‹person›; 压住 yāzhù ‹flames›beat down 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (fall) «rain» 倾泻 qīngxiè ; «hail» 猛地砸落 měng de záluò 
② (shine) to beat down on [somebody]/[something]; «sun» 强烈照射某人/某物 qiángliè zhàoshè mǒu rén/mǒu wù 
B.  [beat something down, beat down something] transitive verb 
① (flatten) «wind» 吹倒 chuīdǎo ‹crops, grass›; «rain» 冲倒 chōngdǎo ‹crops, grass›
② (knock down) 砸开 zá kāi ‹door›
C.  [beat somebody/something down, beat down somebody/something] transitive verb (force to reduce price) «buyer» 使…降价 shǐ… jiàngjià ‹seller›; «buyer» 压低 yādī ‹price›beat in transitive verb [beat something in, beat in something] 砸破 zápò ‹head, door, box›beat off transitive verb [beat off somebody/something, beat somebody/something off] 击退 jītuì ‹attacker, attack›; 赶走 gǎnzǒu ‹insect›beat out 
A.  transitive verb[beat something out, beat out something] 
① (flatten) 锤平 chuípíng ‹metal›the gold was beaten out into thin sheets 金子被锤打成金箔 
② (remove) 敲平 qiāopíng ‹dent, lump›; 拍落 pāiluò ‹dust, dirt›to beat [something] out of [something]; 把某物从某物上拍落下来 to beat the shit vulg or crap vulg or hell colloquial out of [somebody] 痛打某人 → daylight 
B.  
③ (put stop to) 遏止 èzhǐ ‹behaviour›; 消除 xiāochú ‹habit, attitude›
④ (extinguish) 扑灭 pūmiè ‹flames›
⑤ (produce) «person, drum» 敲奏出 qiāozòu chū ‹rhythm, tune›
B.  transitive verb to beat [something] out of [somebody] (extract) 逼迫某人说出 bīpò mǒu rén shuōchū ‹truth, confession›beat up transitive verbcolloquial 
① [beat somebody up, beat up somebody] (assault) 痛打 tòngdǎ 
② especially AmE (blame) to beat oneself up about or over [something]; 因某事而自责 yīn mǒu shì ér zìzé 
beat 
bēt

▶verb (past beat; past participle beaten 
ˈbētn
) [with object]
1 strike (a person or an animal) repeatedly and violently so as to hurt or injure them, usually with an implement such as a club or whip: a woman whose husband would frequently beat her after becoming drunk 
the victims were beaten to death with baseball bats. 
• strike (an object) repeatedly so as to make a noise: he beat the table with his hand. 
• [no object] (of an instrument) make a rhythmical sound by being struck: drums were beating in the distance. 
• strike (a carpet, blanket, etc.) repeatedly in order to remove dust. 
• flatten or shape (metal) by striking it repeatedly with a hammer: pure gold can be beaten out to form very thin sheets. 
• (beat something against/on) strike something against (something): she beat her fists against the wood. 
• [no object] (beat on/against) strike repeatedly on: Sidney beat on the door with the flat of his hand. 
• [no object] (beat at) make striking movements toward: Emmie seized the hearthrug and began to beat at the flames. 
• move across (an area of land) repeatedly striking at the ground cover in order to raise game birds for shooting.
2 defeat (someone) in a game, competition, election, or commercial venture: she beat him easily at chess 
the Senators beat out the Yankees for the 1933 pennant. 
• informal baffle: it beats me how you manage to work in this heat. 
• overcome (a problem, or disease): they are investing their savings in hopes of beating inflation 
he beat heroin addiction in 1992. 
• do or be better than (a record or score): he beat his own world record. 
• informal be better than: you can't beat the taste of fresh raspberries.
3 succeed in getting somewhere ahead of (someone): I could beat him on my bicycle 
the goalie beat him to the ball. 
• take action to avoid (difficult or inconvenient effects of an event or circumstance): they set off early to beat the traffic.
4 [no object] (of the heart) pulsate: her heart beat faster with panic.
5 (of a bird) move (the wings) up and down. 
• [no object] (of a bird) fly making rhythmic wing movements: an owl beat low over the salt marsh.
6 stir (cooking ingredients) vigorously with a fork, whisk, or beater to make a smooth or frothy mixture.
7 (beat it) informal leave: [in imperative] : now beat it, will you!
8 [no object] Sailing sail into the wind, following a zigzag course with repeated tacking: we beat southward all that first day. 
▶noun
1 a main accent or rhythmic unit in music or poetry: the glissando begins on the second beat. 
• a strong rhythm in popular music: the music changed to a funky disco beat. 
• [in singular] a regular, rhythmic sound or movement: the beat of the wipers became almost hypnotic. 
• the sound made when something, typically a musical instrument, is struck: he heard a regular drumbeat. 
• a pulsation of the heart. 
• a periodic variation of sound or amplitude due to the combination of two sounds, electrical signals, or other vibrations having similar but not identical frequencies. 
• the movement of a bird's wings.
2 an area allocated to a police officer to patrol: a patrolman who strived to make his beat a safe one 
public clamor for more police officers on the beat. 
• a spell of duty allocated to a police officer: her beat ended at
6 a.m. 
• an area regularly frequented by someone, typically a prostitute. 
• a person's area of interest: his beat is construction, property, and hotels.
3 a brief pause or moment of hesitation, typically one lasting a specified length: she waited for a beat of three seconds. [as a stage direction.]
4 informal short for beatnik. 
▶adjective
1 [predicative] informal completely exhausted: I'm dead beat.
2 [attributive] relating to the beat generation or its philosophy: beat poet Allen Ginsberg. 
PHRASES
beat all be amazing or impressive: well, that beats all. beat around (or beat about) the bush discuss a matter without coming to the point. beat someone at their own game see game1. beat someone's brains out see brain. beat one's breast see breast. beat the bushes North American informal search thoroughly: I was out beating the bushes for investors to split the risk. beat the clock perform a task quickly or within a fixed time limit. beat the drum for see drum1. beat the hell out of informal
1 beat (someone) very severely.
2 surpass or defeat easily. 
• totally confuse or puzzle (someone). beat the living daylights out of see daylight ( sense 2). beat one's meat vulgar slang (of a man) masturbate. beat the pants off informal prove to be vastly superior to. beat a path to someone's door (of a large number of people) hasten to make contact with someone regarded as interesting or inspiring, or in association with whom one stands to profit. beat a (hasty) retreat withdraw, typically in order to avoid something unpleasant: as the bombs started to go off, they beat a hasty retreat across the field. beat the shit out of vulgar slang beat (someone) very severely. beat the system succeed in finding a means of getting around rules, regulations, or other means of control. beat time indicate or follow a musical tempo with a baton or other means. beat someone to it succeed in doing something or getting somewhere before someone else, to their annoyance. miss a beat see miss1. to beat all ——s that is infinitely better than all the things mentioned: a PC screen saver to beat all screen savers. to beat the band North American informal in such a way as to surpass all competition: they were talking to beat the band.PHRASAL VERBS beat someone back (usually be beaten back) force (someone attempting to do something) to retreat: I tried to get in but was beaten back by the flames. beat down (of the sun) radiate intense heat and brightness. 
• (of rain) fall hard and continuously. beat something down quell defense or resistance. beat someone down force someone to reduce the price of something. beat off vulgar slang (of a man) masturbate. beat someone/something off succeed in resisting an attacker or an attack. 
• win against a challenge or rival. beat something out
1 produce a loud, rhythmic sound by striking something: he beat out a rhythm on the drums.
2 extinguish flames by striking at them with a suitable object. beat someone up
1 assault and severely injure someone by hitting, kicking, or punching them repeatedly.
2 abuse someone verbally. beat up on another way of saying beat someone up. DERIVATIVES beatable adjectiveORIGIN Old English bēatan, of Germanic origin.
