beauty 
BrE ˈbjuːti, AmE ˈbjudi 
noun 
① Uncountable(quality) 美 měi to spoil or mar the beauty of … 破坏…的美 beauty is only skin-deep 美丽只是外表 → beholder 
② Countable(woman) 美女 měinǚ Beauty and the Beast 美女与野兽 ［民间传说］
③ Countable(beautiful feature) 优美之处 yōuměi zhī chù the beauties of nature 大自然的胜景 
④ Countable(advantage) 优点 yōudiǎn the beauty of the system is that … 这一系统的好处是… that's the beauty of it 妙处就在这里 
⑤ Countable(perfect example) 典型的例子 diǎnxíng de lìzi a beauty of a goal/car 精妙的射门/无可挑剔的汽车 that's a real beauty humorous 那可真绝了啊 
beauty 
ˈbyo͞odē

▶noun (plural beauties)
1 a combination of qualities, such as shape, color, or form, that pleases the aesthetic senses, especially the sight: I was struck by her beauty 
an area of outstanding natural beauty. 
• a combination of qualities that pleases the intellect or moral sense. 
• [as modifier] denoting something intended to make a woman more attractive: beauty products 
beauty treatment.
2 a beautiful woman: she was considered a great beauty in her youth 
he arrived with a blonde beauty on his arm. 
• an excellent specimen or example of something: the fish was a beauty, around
14 pounds. 
• (the beauties of) the pleasing or attractive features of something: the beauties of the Pennsylvania mountains. 
• [in singular] the best feature or advantage of something: the beauty of keeping cats is that they don't tie you down. 
PHRASES
beauty and the beast used in reference to two people, one of whom is regarded as much more attractive than the other: writers have dubbed the couple, cruelly, as the beauty and the beast 
[as modifier] : sceptics made much of the age gap and potential intellectual differences, while the author himself bristled at “beauty and the beast” references in the press. [from Beauty and the Beast, the title of a fairy tale in which a young girl called Beauty saves her father's life by agreeing to live with the hideous Beast (who eventually turns out to be a handsome prince who was under a spell).] beauty is in the eye of the beholder proverb beauty cannot be judged objectively, for what one person finds beautiful or admirable may not appeal to another. beauty is only skin-deep proverb a pleasing appearance is not a guide to character.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French beaute, based on Latin bellus ‘beautiful, fine.’
