bed 
BrE bɛd, AmE bɛd 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(item of furniture) 床 chuáng to get into/out of bed; 就寝/起床 to go or retire to bed; 上床睡觉 to get [somebody] out of bed 叫某人起床 to be in bed 躺在床上 to take to one's bed (go to bed) 上床睡觉 (because of illness) 卧病在床 to make the bed; 整理床铺 to give [somebody] a bed for the night 留某人过夜 to be confined to bed 卧床不起 a 20-bed hotel 一家有20个床位的旅馆 life's not all a bed of roses figurative 人生未必尽如意 a bed of nails figurative 极其艰难的境况 jíqí jiānnán de jìngkuàng to get out of bed on the wrong side figurative 起床后一整天都心情不好 you've made your bed, now you must lie in it proverb 自作自受 
② Uncountable(with reference to sex) 房事 fángshì to go to or to share one's bed with [somebody] 跟某人上床 to get in bed with [somebody]/[something] figurative 与某人/某机构建立合作关系 
③ Countable(for growing seedlings) 苗床 miáochuáng (for growing flowers) 花坛 huātán 
④ CountableGeology 地层 dìcéng 
⑤ Countable(of machine tool) 底座 dǐzuò 
⑥ CountableConstruction (of road) 路基 lùjī (of building) 地基 dìjī 
⑦ Countable(of sea) 海底 hǎidǐ (of river) 河床 héchuáng 
B.  transitive verb 
① (plant) 把…栽于苗床 bǎ… zāi yú miáochuáng ‹plants, seedlings›; 把…栽于花圃 bǎ… zāi yú huāpǔ ‹plants›
② (put in place) 埋置 máizhì ‹post, foundations›
③ dated (have sex with) 和…性交 hé… xìngjiāo PHRASAL VERBS bed down 
A.  intransitive verb 临时睡下 línshí shuìxia 
B.  transitive verb [bed somebody/something down, bed down somebody/something] 给…铺草窝 gěi… pū cǎowō ‹animals›; 为…安顿床铺 wèi… āndùn chuángpù ‹children›bed in transitive verb [bed something in], [bed in something] 埋置 máizhì ‹post›; 嵌入 qiànrù ‹beam›bed out transitive verb [bed something out, bed out something] 移栽 yízāi ‹plant, seedling›
bed 
bed

▶noun
1 a piece of furniture for sleep or rest, typically a framework with a mattress and coverings: a large double bed 
she was in bed by nine 
getting out of bed is a real struggle. 
• a bed and associated facilities making up a place for a patient in a hospital or for a guest at a hotel: a round of hospital staff layoffs and bed closings 
few can afford a bed in a hotel. 
• a place or article used by a person or animal for sleep or rest: a bed of straw. 
• the time for sleeping: a glass of milk before bed. 
• informal used with reference to a bed as the typical place for sexual activity: some men care very little about pleasing their partners in bed 
she'd gone to bed with Tony.
2 the bottom of the sea or a lake or river: the gravelly bed of the stream. 
• a place on the seabed where shellfish, especially oysters or mussels, breed or are bred: vast beds of oysters.
3 an area of ground, typically in a garden, where flowers and plants are grown: a bed of tulips 
vegetable beds.
4 a stratum or layer of rock: a bed of clay.
5 a layer of food on which other foods are served: the salad is served on a bed of raw spinach.
6 a flat base or foundation on which something rests or is supported: place each paver on a bed of concrete. 
• the foundation of a road or railroad: the rubble and dirt will help to provide a stable bed for the new road. 
• chiefly North American the open part of a truck, wagon, or railroad car, where goods are carried: the spare tire in the forward bed of the truck. 
• the flat surface beneath the baize of a billiard table. 
▶verb (beds, bedding, bedded)
1 [no object] settle down to sleep or rest for the night, typically in an improvised place: he usually bedded down on newspapers in the church porch. 
• (bed someone/something down) settle a person or animal down to sleep or rest for the night. 
• informal have sexual intercourse with: he should bed a woman his own age.
2 transfer (a plant) from a pot or seed tray to a garden plot: I bedded out these houseplants.
3 (usually be bedded in/on) fix firmly; embed: the posts should be firmly bedded in concrete. 
• lay or arrange (something, especially stone) in a layer. 
PHRASES
bed of nails a board with nails pointing out of it, as lain on by fakirs and ascetics. 
• a problematic or uncomfortable situation. bed of roses [often with negative] used in reference to a situation or activity that is comfortable or easy: farming is no bed of roses. be brought to bed archaic (of a woman) give birth to a child: she was brought to bed of a daughter. get up on the wrong side of the bed start the day in a bad temper.in bed with informal having sexual intercourse with: he found his wife in bed with one of the neighbors. 
• in undesirably close association with: these meetings with politicians put the gay movement in bed with the dreaded Establishment. make a bed fit a bed with sheets, blankets, and pillows. put someone to bed take or prepare someone, typically a child, for rest in bed: Clare put her to bed and gave her a mug of cocoa. put a newspaper to bed informal prepare a newspaper for press. take to one's bed stay in bed because of illness.ORIGIN Old English bed, bedd (noun), beddian (verb), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch bed and German Bett .
