begin 
BrE bɪˈɡɪn, AmE bɪˈɡɪn/ (past tense began, past participle begun) A. transitive verb 
① (start doing, start out on) 开始 kāishǐ ‹career, meeting, game›to begin to do [something], to begin doing [something]; 开始做某事 begin a new paragraph 另起一段 to begin a journey 起程 they began their married life in a bedsitter 他们结婚时住在起居兼卧室两用的租间里 she began life as a grocer's daughter 她出生于食品杂货商家庭 to begin [something] by doing [something]/with [something]; 以做某事/以某事物作为某事的开端 
② (start using) 开启 kāiqǐ ‹bottle›; 开始吃 kāishǐ chī ‹loaf›; 开始用 kāishǐ yòng ‹page, notebook›
③ (say as first words) «letter» 开始写道 kāishǐ xiě dào ; «story» 开始讲道 kāishǐ jiǎng dào ‘once upon a time,’she began “从前啊，”她开始说道 
④ (have slightest success) 一点也 yīdiǎn yě I can't begin to tell you how grateful I am 我对你的感激之情难以言表 I didn't begin to understand 我完全不明白 
⑤ (initiate) 发起 fāqǐ ‹campaign›; 创建 chuàngjiàn ‹dynasty›; 引起 yǐnqǐ ‹debate, dispute, trend›; 散布 sànbù ‹rumour›
⑥ (come first in) 在…中居首位 zài… zhōng jū shǒuwèi ‹series, collection, festival›A begins the alphabet A是字母表中的第一个字母 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (start doing sth., do first stage) 开始做 kāishǐ zuò it's very complicated: I don't know where to begin 这事很复杂，我不知从何处下手 to begin by doing [something]/with [something]; 先做某事/从某事物着手 she began as a sales assistant 她先是担任销售助理 
② (have first stage, start happening) «play, meeting, disease, problem, storm» 开始 kāishǐ a name beginning with C 以C开头的名字 to begin as [something]; 起初是某事物 beginning from July 1st, … 从7月1日起，… the pain began when I tried to move my leg 我那时腿一动就疼 
③ (have starting point) «country, road» 起始 qǐshǐ ; «river» 发源 fāyuán 
C.  to begin with adverb phrase 
① (at first) 起初 qǐchū 
② (firstly) 首先 shǒuxiān 
③ (originally) 本来 běnlái was it like that to begin with? 它原本就是那样吗？ 
④ (at all) 根本 gēnběn I wish I'd never bought the house to begin with 真希望我压根就没有买那幢房子 PHRASAL VERBS begin at transitive verb [begin at something] «goods» 底价为 dǐjià wéi ; «prices» 从…起 cóng… qǐ begin on transitive verb [begin on something] 着手做 zhuóshǒu zuò 
begin 
▶verb
1 we began work: start, commence, set about, go about, embark on, launch into, get down to, take up; initiate, set in motion, institute, inaugurate, get ahead with; informal get cracking on, get going on. ANTONYMS cease.
2 he began by saying hello: open, lead off, get underway, get going, get off the ground, start, start off, go ahead, commence; informal start the ball rolling, kick off, get the show on the road, fire away, take the plunge. ANTONYMS finish, conclude.
3 when did the illness begin? appear, arise, become apparent, make an appearance, spring up, crop up, turn up, come into existence, come into being, originate, start, commence, develop; literary come to pass. ANTONYMS disappear.
WORD LINKS
begin incipient , embryonic beginning to happen or develop initial existing or occurring at the beginningWord Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.
