behind 
BrE bɪˈhʌɪnd, AmE bəˈhaɪnd 

A.  adverb 
① (at the rear of sb./sth.) 在背后 zài bèihòu (towards the back of sb./sth.) 向后 xiàng hòu ‹look, glance›from behind 从后面 he grabbed her from behind 他从背后抓住了她 
② (remaining after departure) 留在原处 liú zài yuánchù to stay or remain behind 留下来 to keep [somebody] behind 把某人留下 
③ (further back) 在后面 zài hòumian the car behind 后面的汽车 winter is not far behind 冬天即将到来 
④ (in competition) 落后 luòhòu two goals behind 落后两个球 to be far or a long way behind 远远落后 
⑤ (late) 滞后 zhìhòu to be weeks/years behind 滞后好几周/好几年 to be behind with or in [something]; 积压 ‹work, studies›
⑥ (in arrears) 拖欠 tuōqiàn to be behind with [something]; 拖欠 tuōqiàn ‹rent, payments›
B.  preposition 
① (at the rear of) 在…的后面 zài… de hòumian (towards the back of) 向…的后面 xiàng… de hòumian look behind you 回头看看你背后 the mountains behind the town 城镇后面的山峦 the sun came out from behind a cloud 太阳拨云而出 they were miles behind us 他们落在我们后面好几英里 she shut the gate behind her 她随手关上大门 
② (underlying) 隐藏在…后面 yǐncáng zài… hòumian the hatred behind his apparent friendliness 藏在他友善外表下面的仇恨 the real story behind the news 新闻背后的实情 
③ (responsible for) 作为…的原因 zuòwéi… de yuányīn the man behind the plan 制订计划的人 what is behind his actions? 他的动机是什么？ who is behind this proposal? 谁提出的这个议案？ 
④ (in support of) 支持 zhīchí (giving guidance) 指引 zhǐyǐn to be (solidly) behind [somebody] （坚决）支持某人 he has no family behind him 他没有家人的支持 
⑤ (less advanced than) 落后于 luòhòu yú to be behind the others «pupil» 落后于其他人 we're
3 points behind the other team 我们比另一支队伍落后了3分 
⑥ (in one's past) 成为…的过去 chéngwéi… de guòqù those days are behind me now 对我来说，那些日子已经过去了 he has three years' experience behind him 他已经有3年的经验了 to put [something] behind one 忘掉某事 
C.  noun colloquial 屁股 pìgu he needs a kick in the behind 他需要鞭策 
behind 
bəˈhīnd

▶preposition
1 at or to the far side of (something), typically so as to be hidden by it: the recording machinery was kept behind screens 
the sun came out from behind a cloud. 
• underlying (something) but not apparent to the observer: the agony behind his decision to retire. 
• at the back of (someone), after they have passed through a door: she ran out of the room, slamming the door behind her.
2 in a line or procession, following or further back than (another member of the line or procession): stuck behind a slow-moving tractor.
3 in support of or giving guidance to (someone else): whatever you decide to do, I'll be behind you 
the power behind the throne. 
• guiding, controlling, or responsible for (an event or plan): the chances were that he was behind the death of the girl 
the reasoning behind their decisions.
4 after the departure or death of (the person referred to): he left behind him a manuscript that was subsequently published.
5 less advanced than (someone else) in achievement or development: the government admitted it is ten years behind the West in PC technology.
6 having a lower score than (another competitor): Woodnam moved to ten under par, five shots behind Fred Couples. 
▶adverb
1 at or to the far side or the back side of something: as I looked behind, my feet crashed into a basket 
Campbell grabbed him from behind.
2 in a place or time already past: the adventure lay behind them.
3 remaining after someone or something is gone: blocks of ice left behind by a retreating glacier 
don't leave me behind.
4 further back than other members of a group: Bill led the way, with the others a short distance behind.
5 (in a game or contest) having a score lower than that of the opposition: polls showed him as much as 50 points behind.
6 slow or late in accomplishing a task: getting behind with my work 
things were falling behind. 
• in arrears: she was behind with her rent. 
▶noun
1 informal the buttocks: sitting on her behind.
2 American Football a one-point score made by kicking the ball between the outer set of two sets of goalposts (the behind line), or by touching the ball, causing it to pass between the inner posts (goalposts). ORIGIN Old English behindan, bihindan, from bi ‘by’ + hindan ‘from behind.’
