believe 
BrE bɪˈliːv, AmE bəˈliv 

A.  transitive verb 
① (take as true) 相信 xiāngxìn believe it or not 信不信由你 xìnbuxìn yóu nǐ if he's to be believed 如果可以信任他的话 I can't believe it of him 我不相信他会做出那种事 to let [somebody] believe or lead [somebody] to believe that … 使某人相信… shǐ mǒu rén xiāngxìn… believe you me 相信我吧 xiāngxìn wǒ ba I'll believe you, thousands wouldn't colloquial 我可以相信你，但大家不会 I couldn't believe my eyes/ears 我简直不相信自己的眼睛/耳朵 
② (think) 认为 rènwéi he is believed to be dead 据信他已经死了 has he arrived? — I believe so/not 他来了吗？──我想是的/还没有 to have reason (not) to believe that … 有理由（不）认为… Dr Wang, I believe? 您是王博士, 对吧？ I don't believe she intends to return to England 我认为她不打算回到英格兰 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (take as true) 相信 xiāngxìn to believe in [something]; 相信某事物的存在 seeing is believing 眼见为实 
② (have confidence) 相信 xiāngxìn to believe in [something]/doing [something]; 相信某事/做某事有用 to believe in [somebody]/oneself; 相信某人/自己 he believes in self-discipline 他信奉自律 
③ Religion 信教 xìnjiào do you believe in God? 你信上帝吗？ 
believe 
bəˈlēv

▶verb [with object]
1 accept (something) as true; feel sure of the truth of: the superintendent believed Lancaster's story 
[with clause] : Christians believe that Jesus rose from the dead. 
• accept the statement of (someone) as true: he didn't believe her or didn't want to know. 
• [no object] have faith, especially religious faith: there are those on the fringes of the Church who do not really believe. 
• (believe something of someone) feel sure that (someone) is capable of a particular action: I wouldn't have believed it of Lois—what an extraordinary woman!
2 [with clause] hold (something) as an opinion; think or suppose: I believe we've already met 
things were not as bad as the experts believed 
humu-humu are, I believe, shrimp fritters 
(believe someone/something to be) : four men were believed to be trapped. 
PHRASES
be unable (or hardly able) to believe something be amazed by something: I couldn't believe what was happening 
Clarke could hardly believe his luck as he put the ball into the empty net. be unable (or hardly able) to believe one's eyes (or ears) be amazed by what one sees or hears: I couldn't believe my eyes when I opened the box.believe it or not used to concede that a proposition or statement is surprising: believe it or not, the speaker was none other than Horace. believe me (or believe you me) used to emphasize the truth of a statement or assertion: believe me, she is a shrewd woman.don't you believe it! used to express disbelief in the truth of a statement: he says he is left of center, but don't you believe it. would you believe it? used to express surprise at something one is relating: they're still arguing, would you believe it?PHRASAL VERBS believe in
1 have faith in the truth or existence of: I believe in ghosts.
2 be of the opinion that (something) is right, proper, or desirable: I don't believe in censorship of the arts 
he didn't believe in sex before marriage.
3 have confidence in (a person or a course of action): he had finally begun to believe in her.ORIGIN late Old English belȳfan, belēfan, alteration of gelēfan, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch geloven and German glauben, also to lief .
