bell 
BrE bɛl, AmE bɛl 
noun 
① (on bicycle, for servant, in school etc.) 铃 líng (in church) 钟 zhōng (on cow, toy, cat) 铃铛 língdang to ring the bells 摇铃 as clear as a bell figurative 如铃声般清脆 as sound as a bell figurative 身体棒极了 to ring a bell figurative colloquial 听起来耳熟 
② (buzzer) 蜂鸣器 fēngmíngqì 
③ (warning device) 警铃 jǐnglíng 
④ BrE colloquial (phone call) to give [somebody] a bell 给某人打个电话 gěi mǒu rén dǎ gè diànhuà 
⑤ Nautical 船钟 chuánzhōng [每隔半小时鸣钟一次]to ring eight bells 敲响八击钟 
⑥ (in boxing) 铃声 língshēng 
bell
1 
bel

▶noun
1 a hollow object, typically made of metal and having the shape of a deep inverted cup widening at the lip, that sounds a clear musical note when struck, typically by means of a clapper inside: the church bells tolled 
a bell tinkled as he went in the shop 
[as modifier] : the bell chamber of the church spire. 
• a device that includes or sounds like a bell, used to give a signal or warning: a bicycle bell. 
• (the bell) a bell rung to denote intervals of time, such as (in boxing and other sports) to mark the start or end of a round: at the bell, we dashed out of Latin class 
the fight went to the final bell for a decision.
2 a bell-shaped object or part of something. 
• the end of a trumpet or other brass instrument: the acoustic properties of a trumpet's bell. 
• Botany the corolla of a bell-shaped flower: a flower with small, pale blue bells. 
• Zoology the umbrella of a jellyfish: the tiny jellyfish has a bell measuring five to ten millimeters wide.
3 (bells) a musical instrument consisting of a set of cylindrical metal tubes of different lengths, suspended in a frame and played by being struck with a hammer. Also called tubular bells.
4 Nautical (preceded by a numeral) the time as indicated every half hour of a watch by the striking of the ship's bell one to eight times: at five bells in the forenoon of June 11. 
▶verb
1 [with object] provide with a bell or bells; attach a bell or bells to: the young men were belling and hobbling the horses before releasing them 
(as adjective belled) : animals in gaudy belled harnesses.
2 [no object] make a ringing sound likened to that of a bell: the organ belling away.
3 [no object] spread or flare outward like the lip of a bell: her shirt belled out behind. 
PHRASES
be saved by the bell (in boxing and other sports) avoid being counted out by the ringing of the bell at the end of a round. 
• escape from danger narrowly or by an unexpected intervention. bell the cat take the danger of a shared enterprise upon oneself. [an allusion to a fable in which the mice (or rats) suggest hanging a bell around the cat's neck to have warning of its approach.] bells and whistles informal attractive additional features or trimmings: an advocate of more bells and whistles on the income tax code. [an allusion to the various bells and whistles of old fairground organs.] (as) clear (or sound) as a bell perfectly clear or sound: Aunt Nora's words came clear as a bell. ring a bell informal revive a distant recollection; sound familiar: the name Woodall rings a bell. with bells on informal enthusiastically: everybody's waiting for you with bells on.ORIGIN Old English belle, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch bel, and perhaps to bell2 .
