belt 
BrE bɛlt, AmE bɛlt 

A.  noun 
① (for clothes) 腰带 yāodài ; Auto, Aviation 安全带 ānquándài ; Military, Sport 弹药带 dànyàodài to tighten one's belt figurative 省吃俭用 to have [something] under one's belt figurative 有过某种经历 belt and braces BrE figurative 稳妥可靠的 ‹approach, job›below the belt figurative 不公正 her remark was below the belt 她的话有失公允 
② (section) (of land) 地带 dìdài (of weather) 气候带 qìhòudài (in space) 星带 xīngdài the stockbroker belt 股票经纪人聚居区 
③ (machine part) 传送带 chuánsòngdài 
④ Sport (symbol of rank) 段级标识带 duànjí biāozhìdài heavyweight belt (in boxing) 重量级拳王金腰带 
⑤ colloquial (hit) 重击 zhòngjī to give [somebody] a belt 猛击某人 to give the ball a good belt 用力击球 
B.  transitive verb 
① (fasten) 用带子系紧 yòng dàizi jìjǐn 
② (punish) 用皮带抽 yòng pídài chōu 
③ colloquial (hit) 猛击 měng jī he belted six more runs 他又打出了6次跑垒得分 
C.  intransitive verb colloquial «person» 飞奔 fēibēn ; «vehicle» 疾驰 jíchí the boy belted home 男孩飞奔回家 PHRASAL VERBS belt out transitive verb [belt something out, belt out something] colloquial «person» 放声高唱 fàngshēng gāochàng ; «radio» 大声播放 dàshēng bōfàng belt up intransitive verb 
① (fasten seat belt) 系上安全带 jìshang ānquándài 
② BrE colloquial (be quiet) 闭嘴 bì zuǐ just belt up, will you! 你给我安静点行不行！ 
belt 
belt

▶noun
1 a strip of leather or other material worn around the waist or across the chest, especially in order to support clothes or carry weapons: a sword belt 
[as modifier] : a belt buckle. 
• short for seat belt. 
• a belt worn as a sign of rank or achievement: he was awarded the victor's belt. 
• a belt of a specified color, marking the attainment of a particular level in judo, karate, or similar sports: [as modifier] : brown-belt level. 
• a person who has reached a belt of a specified color in a sport: I am a karate black belt. 
• (the belt) the punishment of being struck with a belt.
2 a continuous band of material used in machinery for transferring motion from one wheel to another. 
• a conveyor belt. 
• a flexible strip carrying machine-gun cartridges.
3 a strip or encircling band of something having a specified nature or composition that is different from its surroundings: the asteroid belt 
a belt of trees.
4 a heavy blow: she ran in to administer a good belt with her stick.
5 informal, chiefly US a gulp or shot of liquor: they could probably use a few belts. 
▶verb [with object]
1 fasten with a belt: she paused only to belt a robe about her waist 
she belted her raincoat firmly. 
• [no object] be fastened with a belt: the jacket belts at the waist. 
• attach or secure with a belt: he was securely belted into the passenger seat.
2 beat or strike (someone), especially with a belt, as a punishment. 
• hit (something) hard: he belted the ball to the left-field fence.
3 US gulp a drink quickly: belting down shots of a potent drink called arrack 
people who just wanted to belt back drinks with parasols in them.
4 [no object] move quickly in a specified direction: they belted along the empty road. 
• (of rain) fall hard: the rain belted down on the tin roof. 
PHRASES
below the belt unfair or unfairly; disregarding the rules: there has been yet another below-the-belt blow to the workers of Chicago. [from the notion of an unfair and illegal blow in boxing.] tighten one's belt cut one's spending; live more frugally. under one's belt
1 safely or satisfactorily achieved, experienced, or acquired: I want to get more experience under my belt 
he now has almost a year as president under his belt.
2 (of food or drink) consumed: Gus already had a large brandy under his belt.PHRASAL VERBS belt something out sing or play a song loudly and forcefully.ORIGIN Old English, of Germanic origin, from Latin balteus ‘girdle.’
