bet 
BrE bɛt, AmE bɛt 

A.  transitive verb(present participle -tt-; past tense, past participle bet) 
① (gamble) 赌 dǔ ‹money›; 用…打赌 yòng… dǎdǔ ‹object›; (in casino) 用…下注 yòng… xiàzhù ‹cash, chips›
② (be sure) 敢说 gǎn shuō you can bet your life or your bottom dollar or your boots that … figurative colloquial 有绝对把握… you can bet your life on it 绝对错不了 bet you can/can't! colloquial 你保证做得到/做不到！ 
B.  intransitive verb(present participle -tt-; past tense, past participle bet) 
① (gamble) 赌博 dǔbó to bet on horses; 赌马 
② (be sure) 确信 quèxìn you want to bet on it? 你敢肯定吗？ don't bet on it! 我看不一定！ it really hurt — I bet it did! 真的很痛──这我相信！ you bet! colloquial 当然！ I or I'll bet colloquial (in disbelief) 我才不信呢 (with sympathy) 我能理解 
C.  noun 
① (gamble) 打赌 dǎdǔ to win/lose a bet 赌赢/赌输 to have a bet on [something] 对某事物打赌 
② (stake) 赌注 dǔzhù ‘place your bets’ (in roulette) “请下注” to place/lay a bet (on a horse/race) 押赌注(在一匹马/一场比赛上) 
③ (alternative) 选择 xuǎnzé your best bet 最好的办法 
④ (guess) 推测 tuīcè it's a good/safe bet that … 很有可能… 
bet 
bet

▶verb (bets, betting; past and past participle bet or betted)
1 [no object] risk something, usually a sum of money, against someone else's on the basis of the outcome of a future event, such as the result of a race or game: betting on horses 
[with clause] : I would be prepared to bet that what he really wanted was to settle down 
[with object] : most people would bet their life savings on this prospect. 
• [with object] risk a sum of money against (someone) on the outcome or happening of a future event: [with two objects] : I'll bet you $15 you won't find a single scratch.
2 [with clause] informal feel sure: I bet this place is really spooky late at night 
he'll be surprised to see me, I'll bet. 
▶noun an act of risking a sum of money on the outcome of a future event: every Saturday she had a bet on the horses. 
• a sum of money staked on the outcome of a future event: the bookies are taking bets on his possible successor. 
• [with adjective] informal a candidate or course of action to choose; an option: your best bet is to call a professional exterminator. 
• (one's bet) informal an opinion, typically one formed quickly or spontaneously: my bet is that the president will veto the bill. 
PHRASES
all bets are off informal the outcome of a situation is unpredictable. don't (or I wouldn't) bet on it informal used to express doubt about an assertion or situation: he may be a suitable companion—but don't bet on it. want to (or wanna) bet? informal used to express vigorous disagreement with a confident assertion: “You can't be with me every moment.” “Want to bet?” you bet informal you may be sure; certainly: “Would you like this piece of pie?” “You bet!”ORIGIN late 16th century: perhaps a shortening of the obsolete noun abet ‘abetment.’
