between 
BrE bɪˈtwiːn, AmE bəˈtwin 

A.  preposition 
① (in space or time, indicating connection, contrast) 在…之间 zài… zhījiān there is a wall between the two gardens 两个花园之间有一堵墙 between the ages of
12 and
18 在12岁和18岁之间 the link between smoking and cancer 吸烟与癌症之间的联系 nothing stands between us and success 没有什么能阻止我们获得成功 you must settle it between yourselves 你们必须自己解决这件事 I don't want to come between them 我不想破坏他们之间的关系 
② (on a scale or range) 介于…之间 jièyú… zhījiān it's between 50 and 60 kilometres away 它距离这里有50到60公里 something between a novel and an autobiography 介于小说和自传之间的作品 
③ (to and from) 往返于…之间 wǎngfǎn yú… zhījiān flights between Beijing and London 往返于北京和伦敦之间的航班 
④ (indicating sharing, division, combination) 由…分享 yóu… fēnxiǎng they had only one suitcase between (the three of) them 他们（三人）只有一个手提箱 between (the two of) them they had drunk the whole bottle of wine 他们（两个）喝了一整瓶酒 this is just between ourselves or between you and me 这事只限我们两人知道 they wrote the article between them 他们合写了这篇文章 
B.  adverb (in) between (in space, scale, range) 在中间 zài zhōngjiān Oxford Street, the Euston Road, and the area (in) between 牛津街、尤斯顿路以及这之间的区域 she spent four years at university and two years training, with a year off (in) between 她上了四年大学，接受了两年培训，其间休息一年 neither red nor orange but somewhere (in) between 既非红色亦非橙色，而是介于两者之间的某种颜色 → few 
A. 
① 
between 
bəˈtwēn 
(abbreviation bet.) 
▶preposition
1 at, into, or across the space separating (two objects or regions): the border between Mexico and the United States 
the dog crawled between us and lay down at our feet 
those who travel by train between London and Paris.
2 in the period separating (two points in time): they snack between meals 
the long, cold nights between autumn and spring.
3 in the interval separating (two points on a scale): a man aged between
18 and 30 
between 25 and 40 percent off children's clothes 
the difference between income and expenditure.
4 indicating a connection or relationship involving two or more parties: the relationship between Pauline and Chris 
negotiations between the two companies are continuing 
links between science and industry. 
• with reference to a collision or conflict: a collision in midair between two light aircraft above Geneva 
the wars between Carthage and Rome. 
• with reference to a choice or differentiation involving two or more things being considered together: if you have to choose between two or three different options.
5 by combining the resources or actions of (two or more people or other entities): we have created something between us 
oxygen and nitrogen between them account for 99 per cent of air. 
• shared by (two or more people or things): they had drunk between them a bottle of Chianti. 
▶adverb
1 in or along the space separating two objects or regions: layers of paper with tar in between 
from Leipzig to Dresden, with the gentle Elbe flowing between.
2 in the period separating two points in time: sets of exercises with no rest in between. 
PHRASES
between ourselves (or you and me) in confidence: just between you and me, I don't think it is going to happen.(in) between times in the intervals between other actions: I have seen to the needs of my child, and in between times I have cooked the meals.ORIGIN Old English betwēonum, from be ‘by’ + a Germanic word related to two . usage:
1 Between is used in speaking of two things, people, etc.: we must choose between two equally unattractive alternatives. Among is used for collective and undefined relations of usually three or more: agreement on landscaping was reached among all the neighbors. But where there are more than two parties involved, between may be used to express one-to-one relationships of pairs within the group or the sense 'shared by': there is close friendship between the members of the club; diplomatic relations between the US, Canada, and Mexico.
2 Between you and I, between you and he, etc., are incorrect; between should be followed only by the objective case: between you and me, between you and him, etc. See also usage at personal pronoun .
