beyond 
BrE bɪˈjɒnd, AmE biˈɑnd 

A.  preposition 
① (on the further side of) 在…的那一边 zài… de nà yībiān (to the further side of) 向…的那一边 xiàng… de nà yībiān beyond the city walls 在城墙的那一边 the countries beyond the Atlantic 大西洋彼岸的国家 
② (after point in time) 迟于 chí yú beyond 2009/the age of
15 2009年/15岁以后 to go beyond a deadline 超过最后期限 
③ (too far or too much for, further than) 超出 chāochū to be beyond [somebody's] reach 某人够不着 to be beyond [somebody's] abilities 超出某人的能力 the authority of the inspectors goes beyond ordinary police powers 巡官的权力高于普通警察 to be wise beyond one's years 少年老成 it won't go beyond these four walls 这件事不会有其他人知道 it is beyond belief that … …，这真是令人难以置信 to be beyond [somebody]; «activity» 使某人无法想象 «task» 使某人无法完成 shǐ mǒu rén wúfǎ wánchéng it's not beyond him to make the dinner! ironic 他又不是做不了这顿饭！ 
④ (other than) 除…以外 chú… yǐwài he gets nothing beyond the basic salary 除了基本工资以外，他没有什么收入 beyond doing [something]; 除了做某事以外 
B.  adverb 
① (on the further side) 在更远处 zài gèng yuǎn chù (to the further side) 向更远处 xiàng gèng yuǎn chù in the room beyond 在那边的房间里 beyond, there was a garden 在更远处有一座花园 
② (further on in time) 以后 yǐhòu up to the year 2009 and beyond 至2009年及以后 healthcare during pregnancy and beyond 孕期及产后的卫生保健 
③ (extending further) 更进一步 gèng jìn yī bù and beyond; 并且更进一步地 they are pushing the laws to their limits and beyond 他们把这些法规推行得过了头 
④ (higher) 更多地 gèng duō de he can count up to ten now, and beyond 他现在能够数到十以上了 
⑤ (in addition) 除外 chúwài they provide the essentials but nothing beyond 他们只提供必需品 
C.  noun the beyond 未知事物 (life after death) 来世 láishì the back of beyond colloquial 穷乡僻壤 
beyond 
▶preposition
1 beyond the trees: on the far side of, on the other side of, further away than, behind, past, after, over.
2 inflation beyond
10 percent: greater than, more than, exceeding, in excess of, above, over and above, above and beyond, upwards of.
3 little beyond food was provided: apart from, except, other than, besides; informal outside of; formal save.
▶adverb a house with a garden beyond: further away, further off.
WORD LINKS
beyond extra- , hyper- , para-1 forming words meaning ‘beyond; outside,’ such as extracurricular (‘relating to activities done in addition to the normal curriculum’), hypersonic (‘relating to speeds more than five times the speed of sound’), and paranormal (‘beyond the scope of normal scientific understanding’)Word Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.
