bias 
BrE ˈbʌɪəs, AmE ˈbaɪəs 

A.  noun(plural biases) 
① Uncountable and countable(inclination) 倾向 qīngxiàng a female bias 对女性的偏爱 a left-wing bias 左翼倾向 
② Uncountable and countable(prejudice) 偏见 piānjiàn to display bias 表现出偏见 political/media bias 政治/媒体偏见 
③ Uncountable and countable(active discrimination) 歧视 qíshì racial/sexual bias 种族/性别歧视 
④ Uncountable and countable(in sewing) 斜纹 xiéwén to cut [something] on the bias 斜裁某物 
⑤ Uncountable and countableStatistics 偏差 piānchā 
B.  transitive verb (present participle etc. -s- or -ss-) 使有偏见 shǐ yǒu piānjiàn to bias [somebody] against/in favour of … 使某人对…产生偏见/使某人偏向… 
bias 
ˈbīəs

▶noun
1 prejudice in favor of or against one thing, person, or group compared with another, usually in a way considered to be unfair: there was evidence of bias against foreign applicants 
the bias toward younger people in recruitment 
[in singular] : a systematic bias in favor of the powerful. 
• [in singular] a concentration on or interest in one particular area or subject: he worked on a variety of Greek topics, with a discernible bias toward philosophy. 
• Statistics a systematic distortion of a statistical result due to a factor not allowed for in its derivation.
2 in some sports, such as lawn bowling, the irregular shape given to a ball. 
• the oblique course taken by a ball as a result of its irregular shape.
3 Electronics a steady voltage, magnetic field, or other factor applied to an electronic system or device to cause it to operate over a predetermined range. 
▶verb (biases, biasing, biased) [with object]
1 (usually be biased) cause to feel or show inclination or prejudice for or against someone or something: readers said the paper was biased toward the conservatives 
the tests were biased against women and minorities.
2 give a bias to: bias the ball. 
PHRASES
cut on the bias (of a fabric or garment) cut obliquely or diagonally across the grain.ORIGIN mid 16th century (in the sense ‘oblique line’; also as an adjective meaning ‘oblique’): from French biais, from Provençal, perhaps based on Greek epikarsios ‘oblique.’
