bid
1 
BrE bɪd, AmE bɪd 

A.  noun 
① (at auction, for property or company) 出价 chūjià (for contract) 投标 tóubiāo to make a bid (for [something]) 出价竞买（某物） to put in a bid 投标 tóubiāo 
② (attempt) 争取 zhēngqǔ a bid for power 夺权的企图 to make a bid for [something] 企图得到某物 an Olympic bid 奥运会的申办 
③ (in card games) 叫牌 jiàopái to make a bid 叫牌 jiàopái ‘no bid’ “不叫牌” is it my bid? 轮到我叫牌了吗？ 
B.  transitive verb(present participle -dd-; past tense, past participle bid) 
① Busn, Finance 出价 chūjià 
② (in card games) 叫 jiào to bid four spades/six clubs 叫4黑桃/6梅花 
C.  intransitive verb(present participle -dd-; past tense, past participle bid) 
① Busn (make offer) «buyer» 出价竞买 chūjià jìngmǎi ; «contractor» 投标争取 tóubiāo zhēngqǔ to bid against [somebody] 与某人竞价 
② (in card games) 叫牌 jiàopái PHRASAL VERB bid up transitive verb 
① [bid something up, bid up something] (increase) 抬高 táigāo ‹price, rent›
② [bid somebody up, bid up somebody] (force to pay more) 迫使对…出高价 pòshǐ duì… chū gāojià 
bid
1 
bid

▶verb (bids, bidding; past and past participle bid) [with object] offer (a certain price) for something, especially at an auction: a consortium of dealers bid a world record price for a snuff box 
what am I bid? 
[no object] : guests will bid for pieces of fine jewelry. 
• [no object] (bid for) (of a contractor) offer to do (work) for a stated price; tender for: nineteen companies have indicated their intention to bid for the contract. 
• [no object] (bid for) make an effort or attempt to achieve: the two freshmen are bidding for places in the varsity swim team. 
• Bridge make a statement during the auction undertaking to make (a certain number of tricks with a stated suit as trumps) if the bid is successful and one becomes the declarer: North bids four hearts 
[no object] : with this hand, South should not bid. 
▶noun an offer of a price, especially at an auction: several buyers made bids for the Van Gogh sketches. 
• an offer to buy the shares of a company in order to gain control of it: a takeover bid. 
• an offer to do work or supply goods at a stated price; a tender. 
• an attempt or effort to achieve something: [with infinitive] : an investigation would be carried out in a bid to establish what had happened 
she did not hesitate to help him make a bid for the presidency. 
• Bridge an undertaking by a player in the auction to make a stated number of tricks with a stated suit as trumps. ORIGIN Old English bēodan ‘to offer, command,’ of Germanic origin; related to Dutch bieden and German bieten .
