big 
BrE bɪɡ, AmE bɪɡ 

A.  adjective 
① (in size, quantity, degree, intensity) 大的 a big book (thick) 厚书 (large-format) 大开本的书 a big bowl of soup 一大碗汤 this car has a bigger engine 这辆车的发动机更大 I had a big lunch 我午饭吃得很饱 a big thank you to everyone 向大家深表谢意 he gave me a big smile 他冲我咧嘴一笑 give granny a big kiss 使劲亲奶奶一下 to do [something] in a big way 大张旗鼓地做某事 he fell for her in a big way 他深深地爱上了她 to have a big mouth colloquial (talk too much) 喋喋不休 (reveal secret) 口风不紧 → boot
1 
A. 
① 
② (in build) 高个的 gāogè de ; (fat) 胖的 pàng de ; (plump) 丰满的 fēngmǎn de ; (pregnant) 大肚子的 dàdùzi de to get big (tall) 长（得更）高 (fat) 变（得更）胖 
③ figurative (grown-up) 长大了的 zhǎngdàle de she's a big girl 她是个大姑娘了 
④ attributive colloquial (elder) 年龄较大的 niánlíng jiào dà de my big sister/brother 我姐姐/哥哥 
⑤ attributive colloquial (capital) 大写的 dàxiě de ‹letter›
⑥ (in scope) 宏大的 hóngdà de ‹plans›; 大规模的 dàguīmó de ‹operation›to have big ideas 雄心勃勃 what's the big idea? 你这是什么意思？ 
⑦ attributive colloquial (to great degree) 十足的 shízú de I'm your biggest fan 我是你最狂热的追随者 I'm not a big reader 我不怎么看书 
⑧ (important) 重要的 zhòngyào de the big three 三巨头 China is one of the big five 中国是五大国之一 a/the big day/match 关键的一天/一场比赛 something big 大事 he's big in the music business colloquial 他在音乐界颇具影响力 to look big colloquial 显得了不起 
⑨ colloquial (popular) 大受欢迎的 dà shòu huānyíng de ‹band, activity›miniskirts were big in the sixties 迷你裙在60年代风靡一时 
⑩ colloquial (enthusiastic) 热心的 rèxīn de to be big on [somebody]/[something]; 热衷于某人/某事物 
⑪ (generous) usually ironic 大方的 dàfang de that's big of you! colloquial ironic 你还挺大方啊！ 
B.  adverb colloquial to talk big 说大话 shuō dàhuà to think big 想干一番大事 xiǎng gàn yī fān dàshì to go over or down big (with [somebody]) 大受（某人）欢迎 dà shòu(mǒu rén)huānyíng to make it big 取得成功 qǔdé chénggōng she's finally made it big 她最终干出了点名堂 
big 
biɡ

▶adjective (bigger, biggest)
1 of considerable size, extent, or intensity: big hazel eyes 
big buildings 
big cuts in staff. 
• [attributive] of a large or the largest size: my big toe. 
• grown up: I'm a big girl now. 
• elder: my big sister. 
• [attributive] informal doing a specified action very often or on a very large scale: a big eater 
a big gambler. 
• informal on an ambitiously large scale: a small company with big plans. 
• showing great enthusiasm: a big tennis fan 
he tells me the Inuits of the Arctic are very big on Jim Reeves. 
• (big with) archaic advanced in pregnancy: my wife was big with child 
figurative : a word big with fate.
2 of considerable importance or seriousness: it's a big decision 
Mark's biggest problem is money 
he made a big mistake. 
• informal popular or exciting interest among the public: Latino bands that are big in Los Angeles. 
• informal holding an important position or playing an influential role: as a senior in college, he was a big man on campus.
3 [predicative] informal, often ironic generous: “I'm inclined to take pity on you.” “That's big of you!” 
▶noun (the bigs) North American informal the major league in a professional sport: the day he made it to the bigs, he forgot every minor league ballpark he ever played in. 
PHRASES
big bucks informal large amounts of money, especially as pay or profit: Emily earns big bucks on Wall Street. the big idea chiefly ironic a clever or important intention or scheme: okay, what's the big idea? the big lie a gross distortion or misrepresentation of the facts, especially when used as a propaganda device by a politician or official body. the big screen informal the movies: the play was adapted for the big screen. big shot 
ˈbiɡ ˌSHät 
informal an important or influential person. big stick 
ˌbiɡ ˈstik 
informal the use or threat of force or power: the authorities used quiet persuasion instead of a big stick. the Big Three, (Four, etc.) informal the dominant group of three, four, etc.: increased competition between the Big Three networks.big (or heavy) with child archaic pregnant. go over big informal have a great effect; be a success: the story went over big with the children. in a big way informal on a large scale; with great enthusiasm: he contributed to the project in a big way 
they went for it in a big way. make it big informal become very successful or famous: Simon had made it big in the financial world. talk big informal talk boastfully or overconfidently: he talked big, blinding her with legal jargon. think big informal be ambitious: to trade in a heavyweight world market we must think big. too big for one's britches (or breeches) informal conceited.DERIVATIVES biggish adjective. bigness 
ˈbiɡnəs 
nounORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘strong, mighty’): of unknown origin.
