bill
1 
BrE bɪl, AmE bɪl 

A.  noun 
① Busn (for services, utilities) 账单 zhàngdān to pay or settle a bill 结账 add it to or put it on the bill 把它记在账上 to fit or fill the bill figurative colloquial 符合要求 
② Law, Politics 议案 yì'àn 
③ BrE (printed advertisement) 海报 hǎibào 
④ Theatre, Cinema 节目单 jiémùdān to head or top the bill 领衔主演 
⑤ AmE (banknote) 钞票 chāopiào 
⑥ (certificate) 证明书 zhèngmíngshū to have a clean bill of health; «person» 有健康证书 figurative «company» 有清白证明 yǒu qīngbái zhèngmíng 
B.  transitive verb 
① Busn (for payment) 给…开账单 gěi… kāi zhàngdān ‹person, company›to bill [somebody] (for [something]); 给某人开具（某物的）账单 
② Theatre (advertise) 宣布 xuānbù the show is billed as a comedy 这出戏被宣传为喜剧 
bill
1 
bil

▶noun
1 an amount of money owed for goods supplied or services rendered, set out in a printed or written statement of charges: he was running up a bill of hundreds of dollars 
the bill for their meal came to $17.
2 a draft of a proposed law presented to parliament for discussion: a debate over the civil rights bill.
3 a program of entertainment, especially at a theater: she was top of the bill at America's leading vaudeville house.
4 North American a banknote; a piece of paper money: a ten-dollar bill.
5 a poster or handbill: the circus promoters were posting bills all over town. 
▶verb [with object]
1 (usually be billed) list (a person or event) in a program: they were billed to appear but didn't show up. 
• (bill someone/something as) describe someone or something in a particular, usually promotional, way, especially as a means of advertisement: he was billed as “the new Sean Connery.”
2 send a note of charges to (someone): we shall be billing them for the damage caused 
[with two objects] : he had been billed $3,000 for his license. 
• charge (a sum of money): we billed her $400,000. 
PHRASES
fit (or fill) the bill be suitable for a particular purpose: a partner is an ally or a companion, and you don't seem to fit the bill. foot (or pick up) the bill see foot ( sense
1 of the verb). DERIVATIVES billable adjectiveORIGIN Middle English (denoting a written list or catalog): from Anglo-Norman French bille, probably based on medieval Latin bulla ‘seal, sealed document’ (see also bull2).
