bind 
BrE bʌɪnd, AmE baɪnd 

A.  transitive verb(past tense, past participle bound) 
① (tie up) 捆 kǔn ‹item, person›; 束 shù ‹hair›; 包扎 bāozā ‹wound›to bind [something] into bundles 把某物扎成一捆一捆的 bound and gagged 被捆住手脚塞住嘴 
② (unite) 使结合 shǐ jiéhé to bind together; 使…关系密切 ‹people, nations›to bind [somebody] to [somebody]; «act, feeling» 使某人与某人结合在一起 
③ (hold) 束缚 shùfù to bind [somebody] to [something]; «promise, law» 使…受某事物的约束 ‹person, group›to bind [somebody] to secrecy; 使某人保证不泄密 to bind oneself (to do [something]); 保证（做某事） 
④ (hold together) «ice» 冻结 dòngjié ‹soil›; 黏合 niánhé ‹ingredients›bind the mixture with an egg 加一个鸡蛋让混合料黏合在一起 
⑤ (in sewing) 给…镶边 gěi… xiāngbiān the blanket is bound with satin 毛毯以缎子包边 
⑥ (enclosed in cover) 装订 zhuāngdìng ‹book›
B.  intransitive verb(past tense, past participle bound) 
① (cohere) «soil» 冻结 dòngjié ; «ingredients» 黏合 niánhé 
② Chemistry to bind to [something]; 与某物化合 yǔ mǒu wù huàhé 
③ (stick) 锁死 suǒsǐ when the brakes are applied, the wheels bind 刹车时车轮会抱死 
C.  nouncolloquial 
① (bother) 麻烦事 máfanshì to be a bind 是个麻烦 housework is a real bind 做家务真讨厌 
② (difficulty) 困境 kùnjìng to be in a bind 陷入困境 PHRASAL VERBS bind over transitive verb[bind somebody over, bind over somebody] Law «judge» 令…具结保证 lìng… jùjié bǎozhèng he was bound over to keep the peace 他被责令具保不再闹事 bind up transitive verb 
① [bind something up, bind up something] 把…扎起来 bǎ… zhā qilai the nurse will bind up your wounds 护士会为你包扎伤口 
② to be bound up in … figurative colloquial (involved with) 忙于… mángyú… he's too bound up in his work to have time for his children 他工作太忙，没时间和孩子们在一起 to be bound up with … 与…紧密相连 yǔ… jǐnmì xiānglián my life became closely bound up with hers 我的生活和她的密不可分 
bind 
bīnd

▶verb (past and past participle bound 
bound
) [with object]
1 tie or fasten (something) tightly: floating bundles of logs bound together with ropes 
the magician bound her wrists with a silk scarf. 
• restrain (someone) by the tying up of hands and feet: the raider then bound and gagged Mr. Glenn. 
• wrap (something) tightly: her hair was bound up in a towel. 
• bandage (a wound): he cleaned the wound and bound it up with a clean dressing 
she had bound his wounds with a poultice of herbs. 
• (be bound with) (of an object) be encircled by something, typically metal bands, in order to strengthen it: an ancient oak chest, bound with brass braces. 
• Linguistics (of a rule or set of grammatical conditions) determine the relationship between (coreferential noun phrases).
2 cohere or cause to cohere in a single mass: [with object] : mix the flour with the coconut and enough egg white to bind them 
[no object] : clay is made up chiefly of tiny soil particles that bind together tightly. 
• cause (painting pigments) to form a smooth medium by mixing them with oil: use a white that is bound in linseed oil. 
• hold by chemical bonding: a protein in a form that can bind DN
A.  
• [no object] (bind to) combine with (a substance) through chemical bonding: these proteins have been reported to bind to calmodulin.
3 cause (people) to feel united: the comradeship that had bound such a disparate bunch of young men together. 
• (bind someone to) cause someone to feel strongly attached to (a person or place): loosened the ties that had bound him to the university.
4 formal impose a legal or contractual obligation on: a party who signs a document will normally be bound by its terms. 
• indenture (someone) as an apprentice: he was bound apprentice at the age of sixteen. 
• (bind oneself) formal make a contractual or enforceable undertaking: the government cannot bind itself as to the form of subsequent legislation. 
• secure (a contract), typically with a sum of money. 
• (be bound by) be hampered or constrained by: Sarah did not want to be bound by a rigid timetable.
5 fix together and enclose (the pages of a book) in a cover: a small, fat volume, bound in red morocco.
6 trim (the edge of a piece of material) with a decorative strip: a ruffle with the edges bound in a contrasting color.
7 Logic (of a quantifier) be applied to (a given variable) so that the variable falls within its scope. [For example, in an expression of the form ‘For every x, if x is a dog, x is an animal,’ the universal quantifier is binding the variable x.] 
▶noun
1 a problematical situation: he is in a political bind over the welfare issue.
2 formal a statutory constraint: the moral bind of the law.
3 British Music another term for tie.
4 another term for bine. 
PHRASES
bind someone hand and foot see hand. PHRASAL VERBS bind off North American cast off in knitting. bind someone over (usually be bound over) (of a court of law) require someone to fulfill an obligation, typically by paying a sum of money as surety: he was bound over for trial on a felony charge.ORIGIN Old English bindan, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch and German binden, from an Indo-European root shared by Sanskrit bandh .
