bird 
BrE bəːd, AmE bərd 
noun 
① Zoology 鸟 niǎo a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush proverb 双鸟在林不如一鸟在手 a little bird told me colloquial 是一位消息灵通人士告诉我的 birds of a feather flock together proverb 物以类聚 (strictly) for the birds colloquial 毫无用处 the birds and the bees colloquial 基本的性知识 
② BrE colloquial (girl) 姑娘 gūniang to pull the birds 吸引女孩子 
③ colloquial (person) 家伙 jiāhuo a funny or queer old bird 古怪的老家伙 
bird 
bərd

▶noun
1 a warm-blooded egg-laying vertebrate distinguished by the possession of feathers, wings, and a beak and (typically) by being able to fly. [Class Aves; birds probably evolved in the Jurassic period from small dinosaurs that may already have been warm-blooded.] 
• a bird that is hunted for sport or used for food: carve the bird at the dinner table. 
• informal, chiefly North American an aircraft, spacecraft, satellite, or guided missile: the crews worked frantically to ready their birds for flight.
2 [usually with adjective] informal a person of a specified kind or character: I'm a pretty tough old bird. 
• British informal a young woman; a girlfriend. 
PHRASES
a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush proverb it's better to be content with what you have than to risk losing everything by seeking more. the birds and the bees basic facts about sex and reproduction, as told to a child. birds of a feather flock together proverb people of the same sort or with the same tastes and interests will be found together: these health professionals were birds of a feather. eat like a bird see eat. flip someone the bird US informal stick one's middle finger up at someone as a sign of contempt or anger, meaning 'fuck you'. Compare with give someone the finger in finger. (strictly) for the birds informal not worth consideration; unimportant: this piece of legislation is for the birds. give someone the bird North American another way of saying flip someone the bird. have a bird North American informal be very shocked or agitated: the press corps would have a bird if the president-to-be appointed his wife to a real job. kill two birds with one stone see kill1. a little bird told me humorous used to say that the speaker knows something but prefers to keep the identity of the informant a secret: a little bird told me it was your birthday.ORIGIN Old English brid ‘chick, fledgling,’ of unknown origin.
