bit
1 
BrE bɪt, AmE bɪt 

A.  noun 
① (piece) 一小块 yī xiǎo kuài a bit of paper/string/wood/coal 一小片纸/一小段绳/一小片木头/一小块煤块 a little bit of garden 一座小小的花园 to be in/fall to bits 变成碎片 the bits of an appliance 器械的配件 blown to bits 被炸得粉碎 bits and bobs or pieces colloquial 零碎的东西 thrilled to bits colloquial 激动不已 to love [somebody]/[something] to bits colloquial 深爱某人/某事物 
② a bit (small amount) (of time) 一会儿 (of distance) 一小段 yī xiǎo duàn (of news) 一些 yīxiē (of sun, rain, luck, trouble) 少许 shǎoxǔ (of silence) 片刻 piànkè to have/get into a bit of difficulty 有点/遇到一点困难 a bit of rain 零星小雨 let me have a bit of peace 让我清静一会儿 there's a bit of his father in him 他有点像他父亲 I've got a bit of a cold 我有点感冒了 she's a bit of a fool 她有点傻 a bit of skiing/walking 滑一会儿雪/走一会儿路 to do one's bit colloquial 干分内的事 bit by bit 渐渐地 
③ quite a bit of …, a good or nice bit of … colloquial (a lot) 相当多的… xiāngdāng duō de… not a bit (of it) colloquial (none) 一点也不 yīdiǎn yě bù not a bit of good/use 一点用都没有 yīdiǎn yòng dōu méiyǒu every bit of [something] 整个儿 zhěnggèr every bit of her wanted to go 她一心想要去 tā yīxīn xiǎng yào qù 
④ BrE (of text, film) 一部分 yībùfen the end bit 结尾部分 
⑤ bit on the side BrE slang 第三者 dìsānzhě 
⑥ AmE dated colloquial (coin) 12.5美分
1
2 .
5 měifēn [仅用于偶倍数]not worth two bits 一文不值 
B.  adverbespecially BrE 
① a bit (slightly) 有点 yǒudiǎn he looked a bit confused 他看上去有些困惑 a bit too … 有点太… yǒudiǎn tài… wait a bit longer 稍微再等一会儿 shāowēi zài děng yīhuìr a bit like … 有几分像… yǒu jǐfēn xiàng… 
② a good bit, quite a bit (considerably) 相当 xiāngdāng a bit much 太过分 tài guòfèn every bit as good/clever (as …) （和…）一样好/聪明 (hé… )yīyàng hǎo/cōngming the secretary is every bit as powerful as the treasurer 秘书的权力完全不亚于财务主管 he's every bit a lawyer 他是个十足的律师 
③ a bit (a little) 稍微 shāowēi wait a bit! 等一下！ děng yīxià ！ move up a bit 往前走一点 wǎng qián zǒu yīdiǎn I don't care for him one bit! 我一点都不在乎他！ 
bit
1 
bit

▶noun
1 a small piece, part, or quantity of something: give the duck a bit of bread 
he read bits of his work to me. 
• (a bit) a fair amount: there's a bit to talk about there. 
• (a bit) a short time or distance: I fell asleep for a bit. 
• [with adjective] informal a set of actions or ideas associated with a specific group or activity: she's gone off to do her theatrical bit.
2 North American informal, dated a unit of 121/2 cents (used only in even multiples): the sideshow admission was twenty-five cents, two bits, the fourth of a dollar. 
PHRASES
a bit somewhat; to some extent: he came back looking a bit annoyed. bit by bit gradually: the school was built bit by bit over the years. a bit of a — used to suggest that something is not severe or extreme, or is true only to a limited extent: he's a bit of a womanizer. 
• only a little —; a mere —: we went on a bit of a walk. bits and pieces an assortment of small items: weird bits and pieces of paraphernalia.do one's bit informal make a useful contribution to an effort or cause: she was keen to do her bit to help others. every bit as see every. not a bit not at all: I'm not a bit tired. to bits
1 into pieces: he smashed it to bits with a hammer.
2 informal very much; to a great degree: we've got two great kids whom I love to bits.ORIGIN Old English bita ‘bite, mouthful,’ of Germanic origin; related to German Bissen, also to bite .
