bite 
BrE bʌɪt, AmE baɪt 
A. transitive verb(past tense bit, past participle bitten) 
① (cut into with teeth) 咬 yǎo to bite [something] in two 把某物咬成两段 to bite one's nails 咬指甲 to bite the dust figurative colloquial 死 to bite the hand that feeds one figurative 恩将仇报 once bitten, twice shy proverb 一次被咬，下次胆小 
② (wound) 咬伤 yǎoshāng to be bitten by the dancing bug figurative colloquial 迷上跳舞 
B.  intransitive verb(past tense bit, past participle bitten) 
① (inflict wounds) «snake» 咬 yǎo ; «insect» 叮 dīng go and speak to him, he won't bite figurative 去和他说吧，他不会吃了你 
② (take effect) «process, policy, reality» 产生影响 chǎnshēng yǐngxiǎng 
③ Fishing 吞饵 tūn ěr 
C.  noun 
① Countable(act of biting) 咬 yǎo (mouthful) 咬下的一口 yǎoxia de yī kǒu to have or take a bite of [something] 咬某物一口 to take a bite out of [something] figurative 削减某物 a bite of the cherry BrE, a bite of the apple AmE figurative 做某事的机会 
② Countablecolloquial (snack) 少量食物 shǎoliàng shíwù to have or grab a quick bite (to eat) 匆匆吃点东西 
③ Uncountablefigurative (impact, keen edge) (of wind, cold) 刺骨 cìgǔ (of food) 辛辣 xīnlà (of argument, style) 尖锐 jiānruì his speech has bite 他讲话锋芒毕露 
④ Countable(from insect) 叮痕 dīnghén (from dog, snake) 咬伤 yǎoshāng [somebody's] bark is worse than their bite figurative 某人是刀子嘴豆腐心 
⑤ CountableFishing 吞饵 tūn ěr to have a bite 咬钩 the house is up for sale, but we haven't had any bites yet 房子已经上市，但是我们还没有招徕到任何买主 PHRASAL VERBS bite back A. transitive verb [bite back something], [bite something back] 把…咽下去 bǎ… yàn xiaqu ‹remark›
B.  intransitive verb 反击 fǎnjī bite into transitive verb[bite into something] 
① literal (use teeth on) 咬进 yǎojìn 
② (corrode) 腐蚀 fǔshí 
③ (affect) 对…产生影响 duì… chǎnshēng yǐngxiǎng bite off transitive verb [bite off something], [bite something off] 咬掉 yǎodiào to bite [somebody's] head off figurative colloquial 痛骂某人 to bite off more than one can chew figurative 不自量力 bite on transitive verb [bite on something] 咬住 yǎozhù bite through transitive verb [bite through something] 咬穿 yǎochuān the wind bit through my thin jacket figurative 风吹透了我的薄夹克衫 
bite 
▶verb
1 the dog bit his arm: sink one's teeth into, chew, munch, crunch, chomp, tear at, snap at.
2 the acid bites into the copper: corrode, eat into, eat away at, burn (into), etch, dissolve.
3 a hundred or so retailers should bite: accept, agree, respond; be lured, be enticed, be tempted; take the bait.
▶noun
1 he took a bite of his sandwich: munch, chew, nibble, nip, snap.
2 he ate it in two bites: mouthful, piece, bit, morsel.
3 let's go out for a bite : a snack, a light meal, a quick meal; refreshments; informal a little something.
4 we came back from the picnic covered in insect bites: sting.
5 the appetizer had a fiery bite: piquancy, pungency, spiciness, strong flavor, tang, zest, sharpness, tartness; informal kick, punch, edge, zing.
