black 
BrE blak, AmE blæk 

A.  adjective 
① (colour) 黑色的 to go or turn black 变黑 to paint [something] black 把某物漆成黑色 pitch/jet black 乌黑的 
② Black (of African, Australian Aboriginal ancestry) 黑人的 a predominantly Black suburb 以黑人为主要居民的郊区 
③ (without milk) 不加牛奶的 he drinks his tea black 他喝清茶 
④ (without light) 昏暗的 a black, starless night 一个没有星星的黑夜 a big black cloud 一大片乌云 (as) black as ink/pitch 漆黑 
⑤ (dirty) 脏的 my hands were black after reading the paper 读完报纸后，我的手上黑乎乎的 → pot
1 
A. 
① 
⑥ (gloomy) 暗淡的 àndàn de ‹day, future, year›she painted a very black picture of the situation 她把情况描述得很糟糕 
⑦ (angry) 愤怒的 fènnù de ‹look›his face was as black as thunder 他满面怒容 
⑧ (evil) 邪恶的 xié'è de ‹deed, heart›
⑨ (macabre) black humour/comedy 黑色幽默/喜剧 hēisè yōumò/xǐjù 
⑩ BrE dated (boycotted) 受工会抵制的 shòu gōnghuì dǐzhì de ‹goods, work›
B.  noun 
① Uncountable(colour) 黑色 hēisè 
② Uncountable(in mourning) 丧服 sāngfú 
③ Uncountable(paint, dye) 黑颜料 hēi yánliào (polish) (for footwear) 黑鞋油 hēi xiéyóu (for metal) 黑色上光剂 hēisè shàngguāngjì 
④ Black Countable(person) 黑人 Hēirén 
⑤ UncountableFinance to be in the black; 有盈余 yǒu yíngyú 
⑥ Black UncountableGames (player) 执黑棋方 zhí hēiqí fāng ; (pieces) 黑棋 hēiqí ; (in roulette) [轮盘赌赌具上的] 黑槽 hēicáo 
⑦ Countable(snooker ball) 黑球 hēiqiú 
⑧ Uncountableliterary (darkness) the black 黑暗 hēi'àn the black of (the) night 夜幕 yèmù 
C.  transitive verb 
① (make black) 使…变黑 shǐ… biànhēi ‹face›
② (polish) 在…上涂黑色鞋油 zài… shang tú hēisè xiéyóu ‹shoes›
③ BrE (bruise) to black [somebody's] eye 把某人的眼睛打青 bǎ mǒu rén de yǎnjing dǎqīng 
④ BrE dated (boycott) «union, striker» 抵制 dǐzhì ‹goods, factory›PHRASAL VERB black out 
A.  intransitive verb 昏厥 hūnjué 
B.  transitive verb[black out something, black something out] 
① (hide lights of) 对…实行灯火管制 duì… shíxíng dēnghuǒ guǎnzhì ‹building, town›a house with blacked-out windows 窗户被遮住而透不出光亮的房子 
② (cut power to) 使…停电 shǐ… tíngdiàn ‹building, area›a power failure blacked out the city 停电使整个城市陷入一片漆黑 
③ Theatre 熄灭…上的灯光 xīmiè… shang de dēngguāng ‹stage›
④ (darken) «curtain» 遮住…使房间内一片黑暗 zhē zhù… shǐ fángjiān nèi yīpiàn hēi'àn ‹windows›the room must be blacked out 这房间不得有光亮 
⑤ Radio, Television 阻止…播出 zǔzhǐ… bōchū ‹broadcast›; 阻止…播节目 zǔzhǐ… bō jiémù ‹station›
⑥ (suppress) 封锁 fēngsuǒ ‹news, information›
⑦ (obliterate) 涂掉 túdiào ‹writing›
black 
blak

▶adjective
1 of the very darkest color owing to the absence of or complete absorption of light; the opposite of white: black smoke 
her hair was black. 
• (of the sky or night) completely dark owing to nonvisibility of the sun, moon, or stars: the sky was moonless and black. 
• deeply stained with dirt: his clothes were absolutely black. 
• (of a plant or animal) dark in color as distinguished from a lighter variety: Japanese black pine. 
• (of coffee or tea) served without milk or cream. 
• of or denoting the suits spades and clubs in a deck of cards. 
• (of a ski run) of the highest level of difficulty, as indicated by black markers positioned along it.
2 (also Black) of any human group having dark-colored skin, especially of African or Australian Aboriginal ancestry: black adolescents of Jamaican descent. 
• relating to black people: black culture.
3 (of a period of time or situation) characterized by tragic or disastrous events; causing despair or pessimism: five thousand men were killed on the blackest day of the war 
the future looks black for those of us interested in freedom. 
• (of a person's state of mind) full of gloom or misery; very depressed: Jean had disappeared and Mary was in a black mood. 
• (of humor) presenting tragic or harrowing situations in comic terms: “Good place to bury the bodies,” she joked with black humor. 
• full of anger or hatred: Roger shot her a black look. 
• archaic very evil or wicked: my soul is steeped in the blackest sin. 
▶noun
1 black color or pigment: a tray decorated in black and green 
a series of paintings done only in grays and blacks. 
• black clothes or material, often worn as a sign of mourning: dressed in the black of widowhood. 
• darkness, especially of night or an overcast sky: the only thing visible in the black was the light of the lantern. 
• (often Black) the player of the black pieces in chess or checkers. 
• a black thing, especially a ball or piece in a game.
2 (also Black) a member of a dark-skinned people, especially one of African or Australian Aboriginal ancestry: a coalition of blacks and whites against violence.
3 (the black) the situation of not owing money to a bank or of making a profit in a business operation: the company just managed to stay in the black 
I managed to break even in the first six months—quite a short time for a small business to get into the black. [from the conventional use of black ink to indicate credit items.] 
▶verb [with object] make black, especially by the application of black polish: blacking the prize bull's hooves. 
• make (one's face, hands, and other visible parts of one's body) black with polish or makeup, so as not to be seen at night or, especially formerly, to play the role of a black person in a musical show, play, or movie: white extras blacking up their faces to play Ethiopians. 
PHRASES
black someone's eye hit someone in the eye so as to cause bruising. look on the black side informal view a situation pessimistically. men in black 
ˌmen in ˈblak 
informal anonymous dark-clothed men who supposedly visit people who have reported an encounter with a UFO or an alien in order to prevent their publicizing it. the new black a color that is currently so popular that it rivals the traditional status of black as the most reliably fashionable color: brown is the new black this season. 
• something that is suddenly extremely popular or fashionable: retro sci-fi is the new black. not as black as one is painted informal not as bad as one is said to be.PHRASAL VERBS black out (of a person) undergo a sudden and temporary loss of consciousness: they knocked me around and I blacked out. black something out
1 (usually be blacked out) extinguish all lights or completely cover windows, especially for protection against an air attack or in order to provide darkness in which to show a movie: the bombers began to come nightly and the city was blacked out. 
• subject a place to an electricity failure: Chicago was blacked out yesterday after a freak flood.
2 obscure something completely so that it cannot be read or seen: the license plate had been blacked out with masking tape. 
• (of a television company) suppress the broadcast of a program: they blacked out the women's finals on local television.DERIVATIVES blackish 
ˈblakiSH 
adjective. blackly 
ˈblaklē 
adverbORIGIN Old English blæc, of Germanic origin. usage: Black, designating Americans of African heritage, became the most widely used and accepted term in the 1960s and 1970s, replacing Negro. It is not usually capitalized: black Americans. Through the 1980s, the more formal African American replaced black in much usage, but both are now generally acceptable. Afro-American, first recorded in the 19th century and popular in the 1960s and 1970s, is now heard mostly in anthropological and cultural contexts. Colored people, common in the early part of the 20th century, is now usually regarded as offensive, although the phrase survives in the full name of the NAACP, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. An inversion, people of color, has gained some favor, but is also used in reference to other nonwhite ethnic groups: a gathering spot for African Americans and other people of color interested in reading about their cultures. See also usage at colored and person of color .
