blank 
BrE blaŋk, AmE blæŋk 

A.  adjective 
① (empty) 空白的 kòngbái de ‹paper, space, CD›the blank expanse of the sea 空旷的大海 fill in the blank form 填写空白表格 
② figurative colloquial (expressionless) 无表情的 wú biǎoqíng de he had a blank expression on his face 他面无表情 
③ (uncomprehending) 困惑的 kùnhuò de to look blank 面露困惑之色 don't give me such a blank look 不要呆呆地看着我 to stare at [something] in blank amazement 目瞪口呆地看着某物 
④ colloquial (not remembering) 已遗忘的 yǐ yíwàng de I tried to remember, but my mind went blank 我试着回忆，但是脑子里一片空白 
⑤ attributive (absolute) 完全的 wánquán de his blank refusal or rejection of me 他对我的断然拒绝 
B.  noun 
① (space to fill in) 空白处 kòngbáichù ; (clean form) 空白表格 kòngbái biǎogé to fill in the blanks 填空 
② (empty space) 空白 kòngbái to draw a blank 落空 the search drew a blank 搜寻一无所获 
③ (dummy bullet) 空包弹 kōngbāodàn to fire blanks literal 发射空包弹 figurative ［指男性] 不能生育 bù néng shēngyù 
④ (semifinished product) 坯件 pījiàn 
⑤ (domino) 空白骨牌 kòngbái gǔpái PHRASAL VERB blank out 
A.  transitive verb[blank something out, blank out something] 
① (make undecipherable) 删去 shānqù ‹text›; 使…无效 shǐ… wúxiào ‹signal›
② figurative colloquial (erase from memory) 抹去 mǒqù 
B.  intransitive verb figurative colloquial (suddenly become empty) «mind, person» 突然空白 tūrán kòngbái the screen suddenly blanked out 屏幕突然变成一片空白 
blank 
blaNGk

▶adjective
1 (of a surface or background) unrelieved by decorative or other features; bare, empty, or plain: the blank skyline 
a blank wall. 
• not written or printed on: a blank sheet of paper. 
• (of a document) with spaces left for a signature or details: blank tax-return forms. 
• (of a tape) with nothing recorded on it: blank cassettes.
2 showing incomprehension or no reaction: we were met by blank looks. 
• having temporarily no knowledge or understanding: her mind went blank. 
• lacking incident or result: those blank moments aboard airplanes.
3 [attributive] complete; absolute (used emphatically with negative force): he was met with a blank refusal to discuss the issue. 
▶noun
1 a space left to be filled in a document: leave blanks to type in the appropriate names 
this measure required subjects to fill in the blanks in a story. 
• a document with blank spaces to be filled. 
• a domino with one or both halves blank.
2 (also blank cartridge) a cartridge containing gunpowder but no bullet, used for training or as a signal.
3 an empty space or period of time, especially in terms of a lack of knowledge or understanding: my mind was a total blank.
4 a roughly cut metal or wooden block intended for further shaping or finishing. 
• a plain metal disk from which a coin is made by stamping a design on it.
5 a dash written instead of a word or letter, especially instead of an obscenity or profanity. 
• used euphemistically in place of a noun regarded as obscene, profane, or abusive. 
▶verb [with object]
1 cover up, obscure, or cause to appear blank or empty: electronic countermeasures blanked out the radar signals. 
• [no object] become blank or empty: the picture blanked out. 
• cut (a metal blank): the complete core disk can be blanked out in one piece.
2 North American informal defeat (a sports opponent) without allowing the opposition to score: Baltimore blanked Toronto in a 7–0 victory. 
PHRASES
be firing (or shooting) blanks informal (of a man) be infertile. draw a blank elicit no successful response; fail: the search drew a blank.DERIVATIVES blankness 
ˈblaNGknəs 
nounORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘white, colorless’): from Old French blanc ‘white,’ ultimately of Germanic origin.
