blast 
BrE blɑːst, AmE blæst 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(explosion) 爆炸 bàozhà blast effect 爆炸后果 
② Countable(gust) 一阵 yīzhèn blasts of hot air 阵阵热浪 
③ Countable(from explosion) 冲击波 chōngjībō 
④ Countable(burst of sound) 突然发出的响声 tūrán fāchū de xiǎngshēng to give a blast on the trumpet 吹号 a blast of the ship's siren 轮船的汽笛声 he gave a quick blast on the horn 他短促地按了按喇叭 a blast from the past colloquial 勾起回忆的东西 
⑤ Uncountable(power) 功率 gōnglǜ the music is at full blast 音乐正以最大音量播放 the machine is operating at full blast 机器在全速运转 
⑥ Countable(criticism) 严厉的批评 yánlì de pīpíng 
⑦ Countablecolloquial (enjoyable experience) 狂欢 kuánghuān 
B.  transitive verb 
① (blow up) 炸 zhà ‹building, vehicle› to be blasted into oblivion 被炸得无影无踪 
② (open by explosion) 炸出 zhàchū ‹tunnel, hole›
③ (blow at with force) «wind» 向…猛吹 xiàng… měng chuī ‹building›the gale blasted the trees 大风冲击着树木 
④ colloquial (criticize) 痛斥 tòngchì his manager blasted him 经理严厉批评了他 
⑤ Sport (strike) «soccer player» 猛踢 měng tī ; «golfer, cricketer» 用力击打 yònglì jīdǎ 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (blare) 突然鸣响 tūrán míngxiǎng trumpets blasted, horns sounded 喇叭高奏,号角齐鸣 
② colloquial (speed) 疾驰 jíchí 
D.  exclamation BrE colloquial 该死 gāisǐ PHRASAL VERBS blast away intransitive verb 连续射击 liánxù shèjī blast off intransitive verb «spacecraft» 点火发射 diǎnhuǒ fāshè blast out 
A.  intransitive verb «music, loudspeaker» 大声播放 dàshēng bōfàng 
B.  transitive verb [blast something out, blast out something] «loudspeaker» 大声播放 dàshēng bōfàng ‹speech, music›; «musician, instrument» 大声演奏出 dàshēng yǎnzòu chū ‹music›
blast 
blast

▶noun
1 a destructive wave of highly compressed air spreading outward from an explosion: they were thrown backward by the blast. 
• an explosion or explosive firing, especially of a bomb: a bomb blast 
a shotgun blast. 
• a forceful attack or assault: he defeated his weakest opponent in such a blast that the fans left unimpressed.
2 a strong gust of wind or air: the icy blast hit them. 
• a strong current of air used in smelting.
3 a single loud note of a horn, whistle, or other noisemaking device: a blast of the ship's siren.
4 informal a severe reprimand: I braced myself for the inevitable blast.
5 North American informal an enjoyable experience or lively party: it could turn out to be a real blast. 
▶verb [with object]
1 blow up or break apart (something solid) with explosives: quantities of solid rock had to be blasted away 
the explosion blasted out hundreds of windows. 
• produce (damage or a hole) by means of an explosion: the force of the collision blasted out a tremendous crater. 
• [with object] force or throw (something) in a specified direction by impact or explosion: the car was blasted thirty feet into the sky. 
• shoot with a gun: Fowler was blasted with an air rifle. 
• [no object] move very quickly and loudly in a specified direction: driving rain blasted through the smashed window. 
• informal criticize fiercely: the school was blasted by government inspectors.
2 make or cause to make a loud continuous musical or other noise: [no object] : music blasted out at full volume 
[with object] : an impatient motorist blasted his horn.
3 kick, strike, or throw (a ball) hard: Ripken blasted the ball into the gap in right field.
4 literary (of a wind or other natural force) wither, shrivel, or blight (a plant): crops blasted on the eve of harvest. 
• strike with divine anger: damn and blast this awful place! 
• destroy or ruin: a candidate whose only strategy is to blast the opposition. 
▶exclam. informal, chiefly British expressing annoyance: “Blast! The car won't start!” 
PHRASES
a blast from the past informal something forcefully nostalgic: a request for a real old blast from the past. (at) full blast at maximum power or intensity: the heat is on full blast.PHRASAL VERBS blast off (of a rocket or spacecraft) take off from a launching site.ORIGIN Old English blǣst, of Germanic origin; related to blaze3 .
