blaze
1 
BrE bleɪz, AmE bleɪz 

A.  nounUncountable
① (fire) 大火 dàhuǒ (accidental) 火灾 huǒzāi (in a hearth) 火焰 huǒyàn in full blaze 熊熊燃烧 xióngxióng ránshāo 
② (bright display) 光辉 guānghuī a blaze of light/fire; 一道亮光/火光 the gardens are a blaze of colour 几座花园五光十色 
③ figurative (sudden appearance) 迸发 bèngfā a blaze of glory/anger/publicity; 荣耀的闪现/勃然大怒/大力宣传 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (burn fiercely) «fire» 熊熊燃烧 xióngxióng ránshāo 
② (shine) 发亮光 fā liàngguāng candles were blazing brightly 烛光通明 the sun blazed overhead 烈日当头 
③ (shoot) 射击 shèjī (with) all guns blazing 枪炮齐鸣 figurative 大张旗鼓 dà zhāng qí gǔ 
C.  blazes noun plural figurative colloquial go to blazes! 去死吧！ qù sǐ ba ！ what the blazes are you doing? 你究竟在干什么？ to run like blazes 拼命跑 pīnmìng páo PHRASAL VERBS blaze away intransitive verb 
① (burn) 熊熊燃烧 xióngxióng ránshāo 
② (shoot) 连续射击 liánxù shèjī blaze down intransitive verb 火辣辣地照射 huǒlàlà de zhàoshè the sun blazed down on us 太阳火辣辣地照在我们身上 blaze up intransitive verb «fire, oil» 突然熊熊燃烧起来 tūrán xióngxióng ránshāo qilai ; figurative «feeling» 爆发 bàofā his anger blazed up suddenly 他勃然大怒 enthusiasm blazed up in him 他迸发出满腔热情 
blaze
1 
blāz

▶noun
1 a very large or fiercely burning fire: twenty fireman fought the blaze. 
• [in singular] a very bright display of light or color: the gardens in summer are a blaze of color. 
• [in singular] a conspicuous display or outburst of something: their relationship broke up in a blaze of publicity.
2 (blazes) informal used in various expressions of anger, bewilderment, or surprise as a euphemism for “hell”: “Go to blazes!” he shouted 
what in blue blazes are you all talking about? [with reference to the flames associated with hell.] 
▶verb [no object]
1 burn fiercely or brightly: the fire blazed merrily. 
• shine brightly or powerfully: the sun blazed down 
figurative : Barbara's eyes were blazing with anger.
2 (of a gun or a person firing a gun) fire repeatedly or indiscriminately: we go in with guns blazing.
3 informal achieve something in an impressive manner: she blazed to a gold medal in the 200-meter sprint. 
• [with object] hit (a ball) with impressive strength: he blazed a drive into the rough. 
PHRASES
like blazes informal very fast or forcefully: I ran like blazes toward home. [see blaze1 ( sense
2 of the noun) .] with all guns blazing informal with great determination and energy, typically without thought for the consequences.PHRASAL VERBS blaze up burst into flame: he attacked the fire with poker and tongs until it blazed up. 
• suddenly become angry: he blazed up without warning.ORIGIN Old English blæse ‘torch, bright fire,’ of Germanic origin; related ultimately to blaze2 .
