blind 
BrE blʌɪnd, AmE blaɪnd 

A.  adjective 
① (unable to see) 失明的 shīmíng de a blind man/woman 一位盲人 to go blind 失明 to turn a blind eye (to [something]) figurative （对某事物）视而不见 
② (having bad eyes) 视力差的 shìlì chà de as blind as a bat humorous 像瞎子一样 
③ (overwhelmed) 不知所措的 bù zhī suǒ cuò de to be blind with [something]; 因…而失去理智 ‹rage, pain›
④ (unquestioning) 盲目的 mángmù de ‹faith›love is blind 爱情是盲目的 
⑤ attributive (uncontrollable) 不能自制的 bù néng zìzhì de ‹fury, panic›
⑥ attributive (not ruled by purpose) 无理性的 wú lǐxìng de blind chance 盲目的偶然性 blind force 无法抵挡的力量 
⑦ predicative (unaware) 未察觉的 wèi chájué de to be blind to [something]; 对…视而不见 ‹fault, danger›are you blind? 你难道看不见吗？ 
⑧ (without looking) 不凭视觉的 bù píng shìjué de ‹taste, test›
⑨ Aviation 仅凭仪表操纵的 jǐn píng yíbiǎo cāozòng de ‹landing›
⑩ attributive (hidden) 隐蔽的 yǐnbì de ‹entrance, alley›(unable to be seen around) 看不见的 kànbujiàn de ‹corner, turning›
⑪ (blank) 无门窗的 wúménchuāng de ‹wall, facade›
⑫ BrE colloquial (slightest) 一丁点儿的 yīdīngdiǎnr de this book's not a blind bit of use 这本书一点用都没有 
B.  noun 
① the blind plural(people) 盲人 mángrén the blind leading the blind figurative 盲人给瞎子引路 
② especially BrE (for window) 窗帘 chuānglián 
③ (front) 掩饰 yǎnshì his job was only a blind for his real profession of spying 他真正的职业是间谍，而他的工作只是个掩人耳目的幌子 
④ AmE Hunting 埋伏处 máifuchù 
C.  transitive verb 
① (deprive of sight) «disease, injury» 使…失明 shǐ… shīmíng ‹person, eye›
② (dazzle) «light» 使目眩 shǐ mùxuàn she was blinded by the sun 她被阳光照得头昏眼花 
③ (overwhelm) «emotion» 使失去判断力 shǐ shīqù pànduànlì to be blinded by …; 因…而失去理智 ‹emotion, love›to blind [somebody] to [something]; 使某人看不清某事物 to blind [somebody] with science 用深奥的语言使某人困惑 
D.  adverb 
① (without looking) 不凭视觉地 bù píng shìjué de ‹taste›
② Aviation 仅凭仪表操纵地 jǐn píng yíbiǎo cāozòng de ‹fly›
blind 
blīnd

▶adjective
1 unable to see because of injury, disease, or a congenital condition: she suffered from glaucoma, which has left her completely blind 
he was blind in one eye. 
• [attributive] (of an action, especially a test or experiment) done without being able to see or without being in possession of certain information: a blind tasting of eight wines. 
• Aeronautics (of flying) using instruments only: blind landings during foggy conditions.
2 [predicative] lacking perception, awareness, or discernment: he's absolutely blind where you're concerned, isn't he? 
she was blind to the realities of her position. 
• [attributive] (of an action or state of mind) not controlled by reason or judgment: they left in blind panic. 
• [attributive] not governed by purpose: moving purposelessly in a world of blind chance.
3 (of a corner or bend in a road) impossible to see around: two trucks collided on a blind curve in the road. 
• (of a door or window) walled up. 
• closed at one end: a blind pipe.
4 [attributive with negative] British informal (used in emphatic expressions) not the slightest: you don't know a blind thing!
5 (of a plant) without buds, eyes, or terminal flowers: planting too shallowly is the most common cause of bulbs coming up blind.
6 informal drunk. 
▶verb [with object]
1 cause (someone) to be unable to see, permanently or temporarily: the injury temporarily blinded him 
eyes blinded with tears.
2 (be blinded) deprive (someone) of understanding, judgment, or perception: a clever tactician blinded by passion 
somehow Clare and I were blinded to the truth. 
• (blind someone with) confuse or overawe someone with something difficult to understand: they try to blind you with science. 
▶noun
1 (as plural noun the blind) people who are unable to see: guide dogs for the blind.
2 an obstruction to sight or light, in particular: 
• a screen for a window, especially one on a roller or made of slats: she pulled down the blinds. 
• British an awning over a shop window.
3 [in singular] something designed to conceal one's real intentions: he phoned again from his own home: that was just a blind for his wife. 
• a hiding place: you can sometimes use your car as a blind. 
• North American a camouflaged shelter used by hunters to get close to wildlife: a duck blind.
4 British informal, dated a heavy drinking bout: he's off on a blind again.
5 British a legitimate business concealing a criminal enterprise. 
▶adverb without being able to see clearly: he was the first pilot in history to fly blind. 
• without having all the relevant information; unprepared: he was going into the interview blind. 
• (of a stake in poker and other games) put up by a player before the cards dealt are seen. 
PHRASES
(as) blind as a bat informal having very bad eyesight. blind drunk informal extremely drunk. effing and blinding British see eff. rob (or steal) someone blind informal rob or cheat someone in a comprehensive or merciless way. turn a blind eye pretend not to notice. [said to be in allusion to Nelson, who lifted a telescope to his blind eye at the Battle of Copenhagen (1801), in order to avoid seeing the signal to ‘discontinue the action.’]ORIGIN Old English, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch and German blind .
