blood 
BrE blʌd, AmE bləd 

A.  nounUncountable
① Physiology 血 xuè the blood rushed to his cheeks 他的脸颊一下子涨得通红 out for [somebody's] blood, after [somebody's] blood figurative 决心报复某人 to sweat blood figurative 拼命工作 like getting blood out of a stone 像水中捞月一样不可能 to have ([somebody's]) blood on one's hands figurative 对（某人的）伤亡罪责难逃 both sides have blood on their hands 双方都血债累累 to draw first blood figurative 先拔头筹 
② (lineage) 血统 xuètǒng they are related by blood 他们是血亲 to run or be in [somebody's] blood figurative 是某人与生俱来的 blood is thicker than water proverb 血浓于水 of the blood (royal) literary 王室的 
③ figurative (feeling of anger, resentment, etc.) 脾气 píqi to make [somebody's] blood boil 使某人怒不可遏 her blood is up 她发火了 his blood curdles/freezes/runs cold 他不寒而栗 to freeze or chill the/[somebody's] blood 使人/使某人毛骨悚然 bad blood; 仇恨 to have bad blood between two families 两家之间有仇 
④ figurative (energy) 活力 huólì fresh or new blood 新鲜血液 
B.  transitive verb 使获得初次经验 shǐ huòdé chūcì jīngyàn troops already blooded in battle 经过战火初次洗礼的部队 
blood 
bləd

▶noun
1 the red liquid that circulates in the arteries and veins of humans and other vertebrate animals, carrying oxygen to and carbon dioxide from the tissues of the body: drops of blood. 
• an internal bodily fluid, not necessarily red, that performs a similar function in invertebrates. Blood consists of a mildly alkaline aqueous fluid (plasma) containing red cells (erythrocytes), white cells (leukocytes), and platelets; it is red when oxygenated and purple when deoxygenated. Red blood cells carry the protein hemoglobin, which gives blood its color and can combine with oxygen, thus enabling the blood to carry oxygen from the lungs to the tissues. White blood cells protect the body against the invasion of foreign agents (e.g., bacteria). Platelets and other factors present in plasma are concerned in the clotting of blood, preventing hemorrhage. In medieval science and medicine, blood was regarded as one of the four bodily humors, believed to be associated with a confident and optimistic temperament.
2 violence involving bloodshed: a commando operation full of blood and danger.
3 temperament or disposition, especially when passionate: a ritual that fires up his blood.
4 [with adjective] family background; descent or lineage: she must have Irish blood in her. 
• [in combination] a person of specified descent: a mixed-blood. 
• US informal a fellow black person.
5 (usually Blood) a member of a Los Angeles street gang.
6 dated, chiefly British a fashionable and dashing young man: a group of young bloods. 
▶verb [with object] initiate (someone) in a particular activity: clubs are too slow in blooding young players. 
• (in hunting) smear the face of (a novice) with the blood of the kill. 
• (in hunting) give (a hound) a first taste of blood. 
PHRASES
be like getting blood out of (or from) a stone (or turnip) be extremely difficult (said in reference to obtaining something from someone): getting a story out of her is like getting blood out of a stone!blood and guts informal violence and bloodshed, typically in fiction. blood and thunder informal, chiefly British unrestrained and violent action or behavior, typically in sports or fiction. blood is thicker than water proverb relationships and loyalties within a family are the strongest and most important ones. blood, sweat, and tears extremely hard work; unstinting effort. blood will tell proverb family characteristics cannot be concealed. first blood
1 the first shedding of blood, especially in a boxing match or formerly in dueling with swords.
2 the first point or advantage gained in a contest: King drew first blood when he took the opening set. give blood allow blood to be removed medically from one's body in order to be stored for use in transfusions. have blood on one's hands be responsible for someone's death. have (or get) one's blood up be in a fighting mood. in one's blood ingrained in or fundamental to one's character: racing is in his blood. in cold blood see cold. make someone's blood boil informal infuriate someone. make someone's blood run cold horrify someone. new (or fresh) blood new members admitted to a group, typically as an invigorating force. out for (someone's) blood set on getting revenge. taste blood achieve an early success that stimulates further efforts: the speculators have tasted blood and could force a devaluation of the franc. young blood a younger member or members of a group, typically as an invigorating force.ORIGIN Old English blōd, of Germanic origin; related to German Blut and Dutch bloed .
