blow 
BrE bləʊ, AmE bloʊ 

A.  intransitive verb(past tense blew, past participle blown) 
① (move with air current) «wind» 吹 chuī to see which way the wind is blowing figurative 看清形势 
② (be moved by wind) «leaves, curtain» 被风吹动 bèi fēng chuīdòng 
③ (expel air) 吹气 chuīqì she blew on her hot coffee 她吹着热咖啡 
④ (sound) «foghorn, whistle» 吹响 chuīxiǎng 
⑤ (pant) 喘气 chuǎnqì to puff and blow 气喘吁吁 
⑥ Zoology «whale» 喷水 pēn shuǐ 
⑦ Electricity (burn out) «fuse» 熔断 róngduàn 
⑧ Auto (burst) «tyre» 爆裂 bàoliè 
⑨ AmE colloquial (leave quickly) 匆匆离开 cōngcōng líkāi → hot 
① 
B.  transitive verb(past tense blew, past participle blown) 
① (propel with air) «person, wind» 吹 chuī to blow ([somebody]) a kiss （向某人）送飞吻 to blow smoke rings 吐烟圈 to blow glass 吹玻璃 to be blown off course 被风吹得偏离航线 it's blowing a gale/hurricane 在刮大风/飓风 
② (clear) 擤 xǐng ‹nose›
③ (cause to sound) 吹奏 chuīzòu ‹musical instrument›; 吹 chuī ‹horn›
④ (explode apart) «explosion, bomb» 炸飞 zhàfēi (explode open) 炸开 zhàkāi ‹safe›to be blown to pieces 被炸成碎片 to blow [somebody's] mind figurative colloquial 使某人十分诧异 
⑤ Electricity (burn out) 熔断 róngduàn ‹fuse›to blow a fuse or a gasket or one's lid or one's top figurative colloquial 气炸了 
⑥ Auto (burst) 使…爆裂 shǐ… bàoliè ‹tyre›
⑦ colloquial (squander) 挥霍 huīhuò ‹money›
⑧ colloquial (mess up) 把…搞砸 bǎ… gǎozá to blow one's chances 错失机会 to blow one's lines 念错台词 
⑨ colloquial (reveal) 泄露 xièlòu to blow [somebody's] cover 暴露某人的身份 
⑩ (past participle blowed) BrE dated colloquial (damn) blow it! ［表示生气、吃惊或不在意] 该死！ gāisǐ ！ well, blow me (down)! 哎呀，天哪！ āiyā ， tiān na ！ let's take a taxi, and blow the expense 我们坐出租车吧，管它多少钱 
C.  noun 
① Countable(stroke) 重击 zhòngjī to fell [somebody] with a blow 一下子将某人打倒 he was killed by a blow to the head 他被击中脑部而死 to exchange blows 互殴 to come to blows (over [somebody]/[something]) （因某人/某事物而）动武 to strike a blow against/for [something] figurative 反对/拥护 ‹freedom, justice›
② Countablefigurative (shock) 打击 dǎjī to deal [somebody]/[something] a blow, to deal a blow to [somebody]/[something] 给某人/某物以打击 
③ Countable(of nose) to give one's nose a blow 擤鼻子 xǐng bízi 
④ CountableMusic 吹奏 chuīzòu 
⑤ Uncountable BrE slang (marijuana) 大麻 dàmá PHRASAL VERBS blow away 
A.  intransitive verb «hat, tent» 被吹走 bèi chuīzǒu 
B.  [blow something away, blow away something] transitive verb 
① (with air current) 把…吹走 bǎ… chuīzǒu to blow the dust away 吹去灰尘 
② (with explosives) «blast» 把…炸毁 bǎ… zhàhuǐ 
C.  [blow somebody away, blow away somebody] transitive verb 
① colloquial (kill with gun) 把…毙了 bǎ… bì le 
② figurative colloquial (defeat easily) 轻松击败 qīngsōng jībài 
③ figurative colloquial (impress) 使感动 shǐ gǎndòng blow down 
A.  intransitive verb «tree» 被刮倒 bèi guādǎo 
B.  transitive verb [blow something down, blow down something] «wind» 刮倒 guādǎo ‹tree›blow in 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (enter) «rain» 被吹进来 bèi chuī jinlai 
② (from blast) «door, window» 被向内炸开 bèi xiàng nèi zhàkāi 
③ colloquial (arrive) 突然到来 tūrán dàolái 
B.  transitive verb[blow something in, blow in something] 
① (cause to enter) «wind» 把…吹进来 bǎ… chuī jinlai ‹rain›
② (by blast) «bomb» 向内炸开 xiàng nèi zhàkāi ‹door, window›blow off 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (be removed by the wind) «hat» 被吹走 bèi chuīzǒu 
② (escape) «gas» 泄漏 xièlòu 
③ BrE colloquial (break wind) 放屁 fàngpì 
B.  [blow something off, blow off something] transitive verb 
① (with air current) 把…吹掉 bǎ… chuīdiào ‹hat, dust›
② (in explosion) «blast» 把…炸掉 bǎ… zhàdiào ‹limb›
③ (with one's breath) 把…吹去 bǎ… chuīqù ‹ash, dust›
④ AmE figurative colloquial (not attend) 缺席 quēxí to blow off class 逃课 
⑤ AmE colloquial (ignore) 不理睬 bù lǐcǎi ‹offer›
C.  [blow somebody off, blow off somebody] transitive verb AmE colloquial 
① (not meet) 放…鸽子 fàng… gēzi ‹person›
② (end relationship with) 甩掉 shuǎidiào ‹person›blow out 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (be extinguished) «flame» 被吹灭 bèi chuīmiè 
② (erupt) «oil well» 喷发 pēnfā 
③ Auto «tyre» 爆裂 bàoliè 
④ (from blast) «door, window» 被向外炸开 bèi xiàng wài zhàkāi 
⑤ AmE colloquial (be injured) «knee» 受重伤 shòu zhòngshāng 
B.  transitive verb[blow something out, blow out something] 
① (extinguish) 吹灭 chuīmiè ‹flame›
② Auto 使…爆裂 shǐ… bàoliè ‹tyre›
③ (inflate) 鼓起 gǔqǐ ‹cheeks›
④ (in explosion) «blast» 向外炸开 xiàng wài zhàkāi ‹door, window›
⑤ AmE colloquial (injure) 使…受重伤 shǐ… shòu zhòngshāng ‹knee›
⑥ to blow itself out (lose force) «gale» 平息 píngxī blow over 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (lose force) «storm, dispute» 平息 píngxī 
② (fall) «tree» 被吹倒 bèi chuīdǎo 
B.  transitive verb[blow something over, blow over something] «wind» 吹倒 chuīdǎo ‹tree›blow up 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (explode) «bomb, building, vehicle» 爆炸 bàozhà to blow up in [somebody's] face figurative «plan, affair, issue» 砸锅 
② (gather force) 加剧 jiājù a storm was blowing up 狂风大作 
③ (start) «trouble» 突然发生 tūrán fāshēng ; «affair» 突然曝光 tūrán bàoguāng 
④ colloquial (lose temper) 大发雷霆 dà fā léitíng 
⑤ (be inflated) 充气 chōngqì 
B.  [blow something up, blow up something] transitive verb 
① (cause to explode) 引爆 yǐnbào ‹bomb›; «bomb, person» 炸毁 zhàhuǐ ‹building, vehicle›
② (inflate) 给…充气 gěi… chōngqì ‹balloon, tyre›
③ Photography (enlarge) 放大 fàngdà ‹image, photograph›
④ figurative (exaggerate) 夸大 kuādà ‹story›
C.  [blow somebody up, blow up somebody] transitive verb 
① (with bomb) 炸死 zhàsǐ 
② colloquial dated (reprimand) 训斥 xùnchì 
blow
1 
blō

▶verb (past blew 
blo͞o
; past participle blown 
blōn
)
1 [no object] (of wind) move creating an air current: a cold wind began to blow. 
• [with object] (of wind) cause to move; propel: a gust of wind blew a cloud of smoke into his face 
the spire was blown down during a gale. 
• be carried, driven, or moved by the wind or an air current: it was so windy that the tent nearly blew away 
cotton curtains blowing in the breeze. 
• [with object] North American informal leave (a place): I'm ready to blow town 
[no object] : I'd better blow.
2 [no object] (of a person) expel air through pursed lips: Willie took a deep breath, and blew 
he blew on his coffee to cool it. 
• [with object] use one's breath to propel: he blew cigar smoke in her face. 
• breathe hard; pant: Uncle Albert was soon puffing and blowing. 
• [with object] cause to breathe hard; exhaust of breath: (as adjective blown) : an exhausted, blown horse. 
• [with object] (of a person) force air through the mouth into (an instrument) in order to make a sound: the umpire blew his whistle. 
• (of such an instrument) make a noise by having air forced through it: police whistles blew. 
• [with object] sound (the horn of a vehicle). 
• informal play jazz or rock music in an unrestrained style: it took him maybe five choruses to warm up, but then he could really blow. 
• [with object] force air through a tube into (molten glass) in order to create an artifact. 
• [with object] remove the contents of (an egg) by forcing air through it. 
• [with adverbial of place] (of flies) lay eggs in or on something: to repel the hordes of flies that would otherwise blow on the buffalo hide. 
• (of a whale) eject air and vapor through the blowhole.
3 [with object] (of an explosion or explosive device) displace violently or send flying: the blast had blown the windows out of the van 
the back of his head had been blown away. 
• [no object] (of a vehicle tire) burst suddenly while the vehicle is in motion. 
• burst or cause to burst due to pressure or overheating: [no object] : the engines sounded as if their exhausts had blown 
[with object] : frost will have blown a compression joint. 
• (of an electrical circuit) burn out or cause to burn out through overloading: [no object] : the fuse in the plug had blown 
[with object] : the floodlights blew a fuse.
4 [with object] informal spend recklessly: they blew $100,000 in just eighteen months.
5 [with object] informal completely lose or miss (an opportunity): the wider issues were to show that politicians had blown it. 
• expose (a stratagem): a man whose cover was blown.
6 (past participle blowed) [with object, usually as imperative] British informal damn: “Well, blow me,” he said, “I never knew that” 
[with clause] : I'm blowed if I want to see him again.
7 [with object] vulgar slang perform fellatio on (a man).
8 [no object] US informal be extremely bad or unwelcome: "This blows," she sighs, "I want it to be next week already". 
▶noun
1 [in singular] a strong wind: we're in for a blow.
2 an act of blowing on an instrument: a number of blows on the whistle. 
• [in singular] an act of blowing one's nose: give your nose a good blow. 
• [in singular] informal a spell of playing jazz or rock music. 
• (in steelmaking) an act of sending an air or oxygen blast through molten metal in a converter.
3 informal marijuana or cocaine. 
PHRASES
be blown off course (of a project) be disrupted by some circumstance. be blown out of the water (of a person, idea, or project) be shown to lack all credibility. blow someone's brains out informal kill someone with a shot in the head with a firearm. blow chunks North American informal vomit. blow the doors off North American informal be considerably better or more successful than: a package that blows the doors off anything on the market. blow a fuse (or gasket) informal lose one's temper.blow one's own horn see horn. blow hot and cold vacillate. blow someone a kiss kiss the tips of one's fingers then blow across them toward someone as a gesture of affection. blow one's lid (or top or stack or cool) informal lose one's temper.blow the lid off see lid. blow me down British an exclamation of surprise. blow someone's mind informal affect someone very strongly. blow one's nose clear one's nose of mucus by blowing through it into a handkerchief. blow off steam see let off steam at steam. blow a raspberry see raspberry. blow someone's socks off see sock. blow something to bits (or pieces or smithereens) use bombs or other explosives to destroy something, typically a building, completely.blow something out of proportion exaggerate the importance of something. blow up in one's face (of an action, project, or situation) go drastically wrong with damaging effects to oneself. blow the whistle on see whistle. blow with the wind be incapable of maintaining a consistent course of action.PHRASAL VERBS blow someone away informal
1 kill someone using a firearm.
2 (be blown away) be extremely impressed: I'm blown away by his new poem. blow in informal (of a person) arrive casually and unannounced. blow off lose one's temper and shout. blow someone off informal fail to keep an appointment with someone. 
• end a romantic or sexual relationship with someone. blow something off informal ignore or make light of something. 
• fail to attend something: Ivy blew off class. blow out
1 be extinguished by an air current: the candles blew out.
2 (of a tire) puncture while the vehicle is in motion.
3 (of an oil or gas well) emit gas suddenly and forcefully.
4 (blow itself out) (of a storm) finally lose its force: figurative : the recession may finally have blown itself out. blow someone out North American informal defeat someone convincingly. blow something out
1 use one's breath to extinguish a flame: he blew out the candle.
2 North American informal render a part of the body useless: he blew out his arm trying to snap a curveball. blow over (of trouble) fade away without serious consequences. blow up
1 explode. 
• (of a person) lose one's temper: Meg blows up at Patrick for always throwing his tea bags in the sink.
2 (of a wind or storm) begin to develop. 
• (of a scandal or dispute) emerge or become public.
3 inflate: my stomach had started to blow up. blow something up
1 cause something to explode.
2 inflate something: a small pump for blowing up balloons. 
• enlarge a photograph or text.ORIGIN Old English blāwan, of Germanic origin; related to German blähen ‘blow up, swell,’ from an Indo-European root shared by Latin flare ‘blow.’
