blue 
BrE bluː, AmE blu 

A.  adjective 
① (in colour) 蓝色的 lánsè de out of the clear blue sky colloquial 突然 once in a blue moon figurative 千载难逢 to be blue with or from cold 冻得发紫 black and blue 青一块紫一块 to do [something] until one is blue in the face colloquial 竭尽所能却徒劳无功 to shout until one is blue in the face colloquial 喊破喉咙也没用 
② predicative colloquial (depressed) 忧郁的 yōuyù de to be or feel blue 感到忧郁 
③ (obscene) 色情的 sèqíng de ‹movie›
④ BrE Politics colloquial 保守党的 Bǎoshǒudǎng de a true blue Tory 真正的英国保守党人 
B.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(colour) 蓝色 lánsè he wore blue 他穿着蓝衣服 the boys in blue colloquial 警察 
② Uncountableliterary the blue; (sky) 碧空 (sea) 碧海 figurative (faraway place) 遥不可及的地方 yáo bù kě jí de dìfang to happen out of the blue 突然发生 to vanish into the blue 消失得无影无踪 
③ Countable BrE University, Sport (team member) 校队队员 xiàoduì duìyuán [代表牛津或剑桥大学参加两校之间比赛的运动员]; (award) 蓝色荣誉 lánsè róngyù [授予参加牛津和剑桥大学之间比赛的运动员的荣誉]
④ Countable Australian, New Zealand colloquial (mistake) 错误 cuòwù 
⑤ Countable Australian, New Zealand colloquial (fight) 打斗 dǎdòu 
blue
1 
blo͞o

▶adjective (bluer, bluest)
1 of a color intermediate between green and violet, as of the sky or sea on a sunny day: the clear blue sky 
a blue silk shirt 
deep blue eyes. 
• (of a person's skin) having turned blue as a result of cold or breathing difficulties: Annie went blue, and I panicked. 
• (of a bird or other animal) having blue markings: a blue jay. 
• (of cats, foxes, or rabbits) having fur of a smoky gray color: the blue fox. 
• (of a ski run) of the second lowest level of difficulty, as indicated by colored markers positioned along it. 
• Physics denoting one of three colors of quark.
2 informal (of a person or mood) melancholy, sad, or depressed: he's feeling blue.
3 informal (of a movie, joke, or story) with sexual or pornographic content: the blue movies are hugely profitable. 
• (of language) marked by cursing, swearing, and blasphemy.
4 informal, dated rigidly religious or moralistic; puritanical. 
▶noun
1 blue color or pigment: she was dressed in blue 
the dark blue of his eyes 
armchairs in pastel blues and greens. 
• blue clothes or material: Susan wore blue. 
• (usually Blue) the Union army in the Civil War, or a member of that army. [because Union soldiers wore blue uniforms.] 
• another term for bluing. 
• a blue ball, piece, etc., in a game or sport. 
• (the blue) literary the sky or sea; the unknown: a lark went trilling up, up into the blue.
2 [usually with modifier] a small butterfly, the male of which is predominantly blue while the female is typically brown. [Numerous genera in the family Lycaenidae.] 
▶verb (blues, bluing or blueing, blued)
1 make or become blue: [with object] : the light dims, bluing the retina 
(as adjective blued) : blued paper 
[no object] : the day would haze, the air bluing with afternoon. 
• [with object] heat (metal) so as to give it a grayish-blue finish: (as adjective blued) : nickel-plated or blued hooks.
2 [with object] wash (white clothes) with bluing. 
PHRASES
boys (or men) in blue informal police officers. do something until (or till) one is blue in the face informal put all one's efforts into doing something to no avail: she could talk to him until she was blue in the face, but he was just not hearing. out of the blue (or out of a clear blue sky) informal without warning; unexpectedly: she phoned me out of the blue. [with reference to a “blue” (i.e., clear) sky, from which nothing unusual is expected.] talk a blue streak North American informal speak continuously and at great length.DERIVATIVES blueness 
ˈblo͞onəs 
nounORIGIN Middle English: from Old French bleu, ultimately of Germanic origin and related to Old English blǣwen ‘blue’ and Old Norse blár ‘dark blue.’
