board 
BrE bɔːd, AmE bɔrd 

A.  noun 
① Countable(plank) 木板 mùbǎn 
② Countable(for notices) 公告牌 gōnggàopái 
③ CountableGames 棋盘 qípán 
④ Uncountable(meals) 膳食 shànshí room and board 食宿 full/half board 伙食全包/半包 
⑤ Countableplus singular or plural verb (of organization) 委员会 wěiyuánhuì (of company) 董事会 dǒngshìhuì to be on the board (of organization) 担任委员 (of company) 担任董事 dānrèn dǒngshì the board of trustees 理事会 a board meeting 董事会会议 
⑥ UncountableNautical to go on board 上船 to be on board 在船上 to take [something] on board ;literal 把…装上船 ‹cargo› 让…上船 ràng… shàng chuán ‹passengers› figurative (accept and understand) 接受 jiēshòu to take on board new ideas 接纳新观点 
B.  boards noun plural Theatre colloquial to tread or walk the boards 当演员 dāng yǎnyuán 
C.  transitive verb 
① (get on) 上 shàng ‹vehicle, ship, aircraft›
② Nautical (to inspect, to plunder) «official, pirates» 强行登上 qiángxíng dēngshang ‹ship›
③ (cover with boards) 用木板覆盖 yòng mùbǎn fùgài to board over the floor 铺地板 to board up the windows 用木板封窗 
④ (accommodate) 收费为…提供食宿 shōufèi wèi… tígōng shísù ‹person›; 饲养 sìyǎng ‹animal›
D.  intransitive verb 
① (lodge and have meals) 得到食宿 dédào shísù to board at [somebody's] house 在某人家寄宿 
② (be ready for passengers to get on) «aircraft» 请乘客登机 qǐng chéngkè dēngjī flight 723 is now boarding 723号航班现在开始登机 
board 
bôrd

▶noun
1 a long, thin, flat piece of wood or other hard material, used for floors or other building purposes: loose boards creaked as I walked on them 
sections of board. 
• (the boards) informal the stage of a theater.
2 a thin, flat, rectangular piece of wood or other stiff material used for various purposes, in particular: 
• a vertical surface on which to write or pin notices. 
• a horizontal surface on which to cut things, play games, or perform other activities. 
• a flat insulating sheet used as a mounting for an electronic circuit: a graphics board. 
• the piece of equipment on which a person stands in surfing, skateboarding, snowboarding, and certain other sports. 
• (boards) the wooden structure surrounding an ice-hockey rink. 
• (usually boards) Basketball informal term for backboard, referring specifically to rebounding: the absence of center David Robinson to dominate on the boards. 
• (boards) pieces of thick stiff cardboard or, originally, wood used for book covers.
3 [treated as singular or plural] a group of people constituted as the decision-making body of an organization: he sits on the board of directors 
[in names] : the Federal Reserve Board 
[as modifier] : a board meeting.
4 the provision of regular meals when one stays somewhere, in return for payment or services: your room and board will be free. 
• archaic a table set for a meal.
5 Sailing a distance covered by a vessel in a single tack. 
▶verb
1 [with object] get on or into (a ship, aircraft, or other vehicle): we boarded the plane for Oslo 
[no object] : they would not be able to board without a ticket. 
• (be boarding) (of an aircraft) be ready for passengers to embark: flight 172 to Istanbul is now boarding at gate 37.
2 [no object] live and receive regular meals in a house in return for payment or services: the cousins boarded for a while with Ruby. 
• (of a student) live at school during the semester in return for payment. 
• [with object] provide (a person or animal) with regular meals and somewhere to live in return for payment: dogs may have to be boarded at kennels.
3 [with object] (board something up) cover or seal a window, storefront, or other structure with pieces of wood: the shop was still boarded up.
4 [no object] ride on a snowboard. 
PHRASES
go by the board (of something planned or previously upheld) be abandoned, rejected, or ignored: my education just went by the board. [earlier in nautical use meaning ‘fall overboard,’ used of a mast falling past the board, i.e., the side of the ship.] on board on or in a ship, aircraft, or other vehicle. 
• informal onto a team or group as a member: the need to bring on board a young manager. 
• informal (of a jockey) riding. 
• Baseball on base. take something on board informal fully consider or assimilate a new idea or situation: we've got to take accusations of sexism on board. tread the boards informal appear on stage as an actor.ORIGIN Old English bord, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch boord and German Bort; reinforced in Middle English by Old French bort ‘edge, ship's side’ and Old Norse borth ‘board, table.’
