body 
BrE ˈbɒdi, AmE ˈbɑdi 
noun 
① Countable(of living being) 身体 shēntǐ body and soul figurative 全身心地 to keep body and soul together 勉强糊口 
② Countable(corpse) 尸体 shītǐ 
③ Countable(main part) 主体 zhǔtǐ (of text) 正文 zhèngwén (of car) 车身 chēshēn (of plane, camera) 机身 jīshēn (of ship) 船体 chuántǐ (of church) 中殿 zhōngdiàn (of violin, guitar) 共鸣箱 gòngmíngxiāng 
④ Countable(large quantity) 大量 dàliàng a body of water 一片水域 a large body of evidence 大量证据 a body of support 众多支持 
⑤ Countable(group) 群体 qúntǐ the main body of the army 部队的主力 the student body 全体学生 in a body 一起 
⑥ Countable(organization) 机构 jīgòu an advisory body 咨询机构 
⑦ CountablePhysics 物体 wùtǐ heavenly bodies 天体 
⑧ Uncountable(fullness, richness) (of food) 稠度 chóudù (of wine) 醇度 chúndù (of hair) 浓密度 nóngmìdù 
body 
ˈbädē

▶noun (plural bodies)
1 the physical structure of a person or an animal, including the bones, flesh, and organs: it's important to keep your body in good condition 
[as modifier] : body temperature. 
• the trunk apart from the head and the limbs: the blow almost severed his head from his body. 
• a corpse: they found his body washed up on the beach. 
• the physical and mortal aspect of a person as opposed to the soul or spirit: a duality of body and soul. 
• informal a person's body regarded as an object of sexual desire: he was just after her body. 
• informal, dated a person, often one of a specified type or character: a motherly body.
2 the main section of a car or aircraft: the body of the aircraft was filled with smoke.
3 the main or central part of something, especially a building or text: information that changes regularly is kept apart from the main body of the text. 
• the part of an email containing the message, as opposed to information such as the subject and sender: put your name, address, and daytime phone number in the email's body. Compare with header ( sense 4).
4 a large or substantial amount of something; a mass or collection of something: a rich body of Canadian folklore 
large bodies of seawater. 
• a group of people with a common purpose or function acting as an organized unit: a regulatory body 
international bodies of experts.
5 [often with adjective] technical a distinct material object: the path taken by the falling body.
6 a full or substantial quality of flavor in wine. 
• fullness or thickness of a person's hair: designed to add body to limp and straight hair.
7 (in pottery) a clay used for making the main part of ceramic ware, as distinct from a glaze. 
▶verb (bodies, bodying, bodied) [with object]
1 (body something forth) give material form to something abstract: he bodied forth the traditional Prussian remedy for all ills.
2 build the bodywork of (a motor vehicle): an era when automobiles were bodied over wooden frames. 
PHRASES
body and soul involving every aspect of a person; completely: the company owned them body and soul. in a body all together; as a group: they departed in a body. keep body and soul (or soul and body) together stay alive, especially in difficult circumstances: do you think a man can keep body and soul together by selling coconuts? over my dead body informal used to emphasize that one opposes something and would do anything to prevent it from happening: she moves into our home over my dead body.ORIGIN Old English bodig, of unknown origin.
