boil
1 
BrE bɔɪl, AmE bɔɪl 

A.  intransitive verb 
① Culinary «liquid» 沸腾 fèiténg ; «pot» 开 kāi to boil dry 烧干 
② figurative (be turbulent) «sea» 翻腾 fānteng ; (be angry) 发怒 fānù she was boiling with rage 她气得火冒三丈 
B.  transitive verb 
① (heat) 烧开 shāokāi ‹liquid›
② Culinary (cook) 煮 zhǔ 
③ (wash) 煮沸洗涤 zhǔfèi xǐdí ‹laundry›
C.  nounUncountable(to be) on the boil BrE literal 沸腾 fèiténg figurative «project» （进行得）如火如荼 (jìnxíng de)rú huǒ rú tú to go off the boil BrE literal 停止沸腾 figurative «project» 进度放慢 jìndù fàngmàn «romance» 降温 jiàngwēn «person» 势头减弱 shìtóu jiǎnruò to bring [something] to the boil literal 将某物煮沸 figurative 使某事紧张进行 shǐ mǒu shì jǐnzhāng jìnxíng to come to the boil literal 开始沸腾 the situation came to the boil 局势达到白热化 PHRASAL VERBS boil away intransitive verb 
① (keep boiling) 持续沸腾 chíxù fèiténg 
② (evaporate) (become less) 煮浓 zhǔnóng (disappear) 煮干 zhǔgān boil down 
A.  intransitive verb 
① Culinary (be reduced) 熬浓 áonóng 
② to boil down to [something] figurative (be the essence of) 归结为某事物 guījié wéi mǒu shìwù 
B.  transitive verb[boil something down] 
① Culinary 熬浓 áonóng 
② figurative (make shorter) 压缩 yāsuō ‹report›to boil the speech down to ten minutes 将演讲压缩到10分钟 boil over intransitive verb 
① literal (overflow) 溢出 yìchū 
② figurative (erupt) «person, situation» 失控 shīkòng to boil over into open conflict 失控而演变为公开冲突 boil up 
A.  intransitive verb 
① literal (come to the boil) «liquid» 沸腾 fèiténg 
② figurative (surge up) 即将爆发 jíjiāng bàofā 
B.  transitive verb[boil up something, boil something up] BrE 把…煮沸 bǎ… zhǔfèi 
boil
1 
boil

▶verb
1 (with reference to a liquid) reach or cause to reach the temperature at which it bubbles and turns to vapor: [with object] : we tried to get people to boil their drinking water 
I'll boil up the stock 
[no object] : he waited for the water to boil. 
• (with reference to a kettle, pan, or other container) heat or be heated until the liquid inside reaches a temperature at which it bubbles and turns to vapor: [with object] : she boiled the kettle and took down a couple of mugs 
[no object] : the kettle boiled and he filled the teapot.
2 [with object] subject (something) to the heat of boiling liquid, in particular: 
• (with reference to food) cook or be cooked by immersing in boiling water or stock: [with object] : boil the potatoes until well done 
(as adjective boiled) : two boiled eggs 
[no object] : make the sauce while the lobsters are boiling. 
• [no object] (of food) be cooked in boiling water: make the sauce while the lobsters are boiling. 
• wash or sterilize (clothes) in very hot water. 
• historical execute (someone) by subjecting them to the heat of boiling liquid.
3 [no object] (of the sea or clouds) be turbulent and stormy: a huge cliff with the black sea boiling below. 
• (of a person or strong emotion) be stirred up or inflamed: he was boiling with rage. 
▶noun
1 [in singular] the temperature at which a liquid bubbles and turns to vapor: stir in cream and bring to a boil. 
• an act or process of heating a liquid to the temperature at which it bubbles and turns to vapor. 
• a state of vigorous activity or excitement. 
• an area of churning water: massive current differentials, boils, and braided channels. 
• Fishing a sudden rise of a fish at a fly.
2 US an outdoor meal at which seafood is boiled: everything for a traditional Louisiana seafood boil can be carried down to the beach. 
• a blend of seasonings added to water to enhance the flavor of boiled seafood. 
PHRASES
keep the pot boiling maintain the momentum or interest value of something. make one's blood boil see blood. PHRASAL VERBS boil down to be in essence a matter of: everything boiled down to cash in the end. boil something down reduce the volume of a liquid by boiling: they boil down the syrup until it is very thick. boil over (of a liquid) flow over the sides of the container in boiling. 
• (of a situation or strong emotion) become so excited or tense as to get out of control: one woman's anger boiled over.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French boillir, from Latin bullire ‘to bubble,’ from bulla ‘bubble.’
