bold 
BrE bəʊld, AmE boʊld 
A. adjective 
① (daring) 大胆的 dàdǎn de (courageous) 勇敢的 yǒnggǎn de it was a bold step to take 迈出这一步很勇敢 put on or up a bold front 表现出勇气 
② (forward, impudent) 冒失的 màoshi de if I may make so bold as to suggest that … formal 恕我冒昧提议… as bold as brass colloquial 厚颜无耻 
③ (strong, clear) 醒目的 xǐngmù de ‹colour, pattern, underlining›paint with bold strokes of the brush 笔法遒劲地绘画 
④ Printing 黑体的 hēitǐ de bold type/letters 黑体/黑体字 
B.  noun Printing bold(face) 黑体 hēitǐ in bold 用黑体 yòng hēitǐ 
bold 
▶adjective
1 bold adventurers: daring, intrepid, brave, courageous, valiant, valorous, fearless, dauntless, audacious, daredevil; adventurous, heroic, plucky, spirited, confident, assured; informal gutsy, gutty, spunky, feisty; literary temerarious. ANTONYMS timid, unadventurous.
2 don't be so bold in public: impudent, insolent, impertinent, brazen, brash, disrespectful, presumptuous, forward; cheeky, fresh.
3 a bold pattern: striking, vivid, bright, strong, eye-catching, prominent, impactful; gaudy, lurid, garish. ANTONYMS pale.
4 departure times are in bold type: heavy, thick, pronounced, conspicuous. ANTONYMS light, roman.CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD bold, aggressive, audacious, bumptious, brazen, intrepid, presumptuous Is walking up to an attractive stranger and asking him or her to have dinner with you tonight a bold move or merely an aggressive one? Both words suggest assertive, confident behavior that is a little on the shameless side, but bold has a wider range of application. It can suggest self-confidence that borders on impudence (to be so bold as to call the president by his first name), but it can also be used to describe a daring temperament that is either courageous or defiant (a bold investigator who would not give up). Aggressive behavior, on the other hand, usually falls within a narrower range, somewhere between menacing (aggressive attacks on innocent villagers) and just plain pushy (an aggressive salesperson). Brazen implies a defiant lack of modesty (a brazen stare), and presumptuous goes even further, suggesting overconfidence to the point of causing offense (a presumptuous request for money). Bumptious behavior can also be offensive, but it is usually associated with the kind of cockiness that can't be helped (a bumptious young upstart). An audacious individual is bold to the point of recklessness (an audacious explorer), which brings it very close in meaning to intrepid, suggesting fearlessness in the face of the unknown (the intrepid settlers of the Great Plains).These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
