bomb 
BrE bɒm, AmE bɑm 

A.  noun 
① (explosive device) 炸弹 zhàdàn the Bomb 核武器 this room looks like a bomb's hit it colloquial 这间屋子里乱七八糟的 to go like a bomb BrE colloquial «vehicle» 飞驰 to go down a bomb BrE colloquial 大获成功 
② BrE colloquial (large sum) 大笔钱 dàbǐ qián to cost/spend a bomb colloquial 花一大笔钱 
B.  transitive verb 轰炸 hōngzhà 
C.  intransitive verbcolloquial 
① BrE (move fast) «car, train» 疾驶 jíshǐ ; «person» 飞奔 fēibēn to bomb up/down the road 沿路飞驰而来/去 
② Theatre (fail) «show, play, film» 惨败 cǎnbài PHRASAL VERB bomb out transitive verb [bomb somebody/something out], [bomb out somebody/something] 炸毁 zhàhuǐ ‹building›; 把…炸得无家可归 bǎ… zhà de wú jiā kě guī ‹person, family›
bomb 
bäm

▶noun
1 a container filled with explosive, incendiary material, smoke, gas, or other destructive substance, designed to explode on impact or when detonated by a time mechanism, remote-control device, or lit fuse. 
• [with modifier] an explosive device fitted into a specified object: a package bomb. See also car bomb, letter bomb. 
• (the bomb) nuclear weapons considered collectively as agents of mass destruction: she joined the fight against the bomb. 
• a small pressurized container that sprays liquid, foam, or gas: the bug bombs we tried did not kill the cockroaches.
2 (also volcanic bomb) a lump of lava thrown out by a volcano.
3 informal a movie, play, or other event that fails badly. 
• an old car, especially a run-down one.
4 a long forward pass or hit in a ball game: a big 40-yard bomb down the middle to tight end Howard Cross.
5 (the (or da) bomb) US informal an outstandingly good person or thing: the site would really be da bomb if its content were updated more frequently.
6 informal a marijuana cigarette.
7 (a bomb) British informal a large sum of money: it will cost a bomb in call charges. 
▶verb
1 [with object] attack (a place or vehicle) with a bomb or bombs: London was bombed, night after night 
(as noun bombing) : a series of bombings.
2 [no object] informal (of a movie, play, or other event) fail miserably: a big-budget movie that bombed at the box office 
he bombed out at several tournaments.
3 [no object, with adverbial of direction] British informal move very quickly: the bus came bombing along. 
PHRASES
go down a bomb British informal be very well received: those gigs we did went down a bomb. it looks like a bomb's hit it informal used to describe a place that is extremely messy or untidy in appearance.ORIGIN late 17th century: from French bombe, from Italian bomba, probably from Latin bombus ‘booming, humming,’ from Greek bombos, of imitative origin.
