bond 
BrE bɒnd, AmE bɑnd 

A.  noun 
① (link) 纽带 niǔdài to feel a strong bond with [somebody] 感到和某人关系密切 the experience forged a bond between them 那次经历把他们联系在了一起 
② (fetter) 镣铐 liàokào ; figurative literary 枷锁 jiāsuǒ to break the bonds of routine 打破常规的束缚 
③ Finance 债券 zhàiquàn 
④ (adhesion) 黏合剂 niánhéjì 
⑤ Chemistry 键 jiàn 
⑥ Law (deposit, guarantee) 契约 qìyuē my word is my bond 我一定会履行诺言 
⑦ Construction 砌合 qìhé 
⑧ (at customs) 关栈保税 guānzhàn bǎoshuì [指把货物放在海关的堆栈中，待完税后取出]in bond; 在关栈中 
B.  transitive verb 
① (stick) bond (together) «adhesive» 黏合 niánhé ‹surfaces, materials›
② (at customs) 把…存入关栈 bǎ… cúnrù guānzhàn ‹goods›
C.  intransitive verb 
① especially Psychology 建立密切关系 jiànlì mìqiè guānxì the mother and baby bonded quickly 母亲和婴儿很快建立了感情 
② (adhere) «material, surface» 黏合 niánhé 
bond 
bänd

▶noun
1 a thing used to tie something or to fasten things together: she brushed back a curl that had strayed from its bonds 
figurative : chaos could result if the bonds of obedience and loyalty were broken. 
• (bonds) physical restraints used to hold someone or something prisoner, especially ropes or chains. 
• adhesiveness; ability of two objects to stick to each other: a total lack of effective bond between the concrete and the steel. 
• a force or feeling that unites people; a common emotion or interest: there was a bond of understanding between them.
2 an agreement with legal force, in particular: 
• Law a deed by which a person is committed to make payment to another. 
• a certificate issued by a government or a public company promising to repay borrowed money at a fixed rate of interest at a specified time. 
• an insurance policy held by a company, which protects against losses resulting from circumstances such as bankruptcy or misconduct by employees. 
• US a sum of money paid as bail.
3 (also chemical bond) a strong force of attraction holding atoms together in a molecule or crystal, resulting from the sharing or transfer of electrons.
4 [with modifier] Building any of the various patterns in which bricks are conventionally laid in order to ensure the strength of the resulting structure. See English bond, Flemish bond.
5 short for bond paper. 
▶verb
1 join or be joined securely to something else, typically by means of an adhesive substance, heat, or pressure: [with object] : press the material to bond the layers together 
[no object] : this material will bond well to stainless steel rods 
(as adjective bonding) : a bonding agent. 
• [no object] establish a relationship with someone based on shared feelings, interests, or experiences: the failure to properly bond with their children 
the team has bonded together well 
(as noun bonding) : the film has some great male bonding scenes.
2 join or be joined by a chemical bond.
3 [with object] (usually as adjective bonding) lay (bricks) in an overlapping pattern so as to form a strong structure: a bonding course.
4 (usually as noun bonding) place (dutiable goods) in bond. ORIGIN Middle English: variant of band1 .
