bone 
BrE bəʊn, AmE boʊn 

A.  noun 
① Countable(of human, animal) 骨头 gǔtou a fish bone 一根鱼刺 to break a bone 骨折 no bones broken 没有伤筋动骨 a bone of contention (cause) 争端的起因 (subject) 争议点 close or near to the bone (accurate) 说话太直率的 (risqué) 下流的 to cut close to the bone 一针见血 to cut [something] to the bone 尽量削减某物 to have a bone to pick with [somebody] (about [something]) colloquial （因某事物）对某人有怨言 I've got a bone to pick with you about this report 我对你这份报告不满意 
② Uncountable(calcified material) 骨质 gǔzhì a bone handle/button/ornament 骨质把手/纽扣/饰物 
③ Countable(in corset etc.) 鲸骨 jīnggǔ 
B.  bones noun plural (human remains) 尸骨 shīgǔ (animal skeleton) 骨骼 gǔgé I need somewhere to rest my old bones humorous 我这把老骨头得找个地方休息一下了 (he's just) a bag of bones colloquial （他）骨瘦如柴 to feel [something] in one's bones 凭直觉感觉到某事物 to make no bones about [something] 对某事直言不讳 → bare 
A. 
② 
C.  transitive verb 剔去…的骨头 tīqù… de gǔtou ‹joint, piece of meat›; 剔去…的刺 tīqù… de cì ‹fish›PHRASAL VERB bone up on transitive verb[bone up on something] colloquial 温习 wēnxí ‹subject›
bone 
bōn

▶noun
1 any of the pieces of hard, whitish tissue making up the skeleton in humans and other vertebrates: his injuries included many broken bones 
a shoulder bone. The substance of bones is formed by specialized cells (osteoblasts) that secrete around themselves a material containing calcium salts (which provide hardness and strength in compression) and collagen fibers (which provide tensile strength). Many bones have a central cavity containing marrow. 
• (bones) a person's body: he hauled his tired bones upright. 
• (bones) a corpse or skeleton: the diggers turned up the bones of a fifteen-year-old girl 
bones of prehistoric mammals. 
• a bone of an animal with meat on it, used as food for people or dogs: stewed in stock made with a ham bone 
dogs yelping over a bone.
2 the calcified material of which bones consist: an earring of bone. 
• a substance similar to bone such as ivory, dentin, or whalebone. 
• (often bones) a thing made of, or once made of, such a substance, for example a pair of dice. 
• the whitish color of bone: the sandals she had dyed bone to match the small purse.
3 (bones) the basic or essential framework of something: you need to put some flesh on the bones of your idea.
4 vulgar slang a penis. 
▶verb
1 [with object] remove the bones from (meat or fish): while the gumbo is simmering, bone the cooked chicken.
2 [no object] (bone up on) informal study (a subject) intensively, often in preparation for something: she boned up on languages she had learned long ago and went back to New Guinea.
3 [with object] US vulgar slang (of a man) have sexual intercourse with (someone). 
PHRASES
a bag of bones see bag. the bare bones see bare. be skin and bones see skin. a bone of contention a subject or issue over which there is continuing disagreement: the examination system has long been a serious bone of contention. close to (or near) the bone
1 (of a remark) penetrating and accurate to the point of causing hurt or discomfort.
2 destitute; hard up. cut (or pare) something to the bone reduce something to the bare minimum: costs will have to be cut to the bone. (as) dry as a bone see dry. have a bone to pick with someone informal have reason to disagree or be annoyed with someone. have not a —— bone in one's body (of a person) have not the slightest trace of the specified quality: there's not a conservative bone in his body. in one's bones felt, believed, or known deeply or instinctively: he has rhythm in his bones 
something good was bound to happen; he could feel it in his bones. make no bones about something have no hesitation in stating or dealing with something, however awkward or distasteful it is: the film is an op-ed piece, and the director makes no bones about its biases. to the bone
1 (of a wound) so deep as to expose a person's bone: his thigh had been axed open to the bone 
figurative : his contempt cut her to the bone. 
• (especially of cold) affecting a person in a penetrating way: chilled to the bone.
2 (or to one's bones) used to emphasize that a person has a specified quality in an overwhelming or fundamental way: she's a New Englander to her bones 
he's a cop to the bone.throw a bone to give someone only a token concession: was the true purpose of the minimum wage hike to throw a bone to the unions? what's bred in the bone will come out in the flesh (or blood) proverb a person's behavior or characteristics are determined by heredity.work one's fingers to the bone work very hard: Tracy can work her fingers to the bone, but it's Ms. Green who gets the thanks.ORIGIN Old English bān, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch been and German Bein .
