border 
BrE ˈbɔːdə, AmE ˈbɔrdər 

A.  noun 
① (frontier) 边界 biānjiè ; figurative (dividing line) 界线 jièxiàn France's border with Spain 法国与西班牙的国界线 on the Swiss border 在瑞士边境 a border town 位于边境的城镇 border guards 边防警卫 biānfáng jǐngwèi to have borders with six countries 与六国接壤 to cross the border 穿越边界 just on the border between pass and fail 就在成败的一线之间 
② (edge of forest, lake, field) 边缘 biānyuán 
③ (decorative edge on crockery, paper, picture) 边饰 biānshì 
④ (for plants) [草坪、小路边的] 狭长花坛 xiácháng huātán 
B.  Borders proper noun plural the Bborders (Region) ［英格兰和苏格兰的] 交界地区 jiāojiè dìqū 
C.  transitive verb 
① (have a frontier with) 与…接壤 yǔ… jiērǎng France borders Italy 法国与意大利接壤 to be bordered by … 与…毗邻 
② (surround, form edge) 环绕 huánrào to be bordered on three sides by trees 三面树木环绕 to be bordered with lace 镶有花边 PHRASAL VERB border on transitive verb[border on something] 
① (have a frontier with) «country» 与…接壤 yǔ… jiērǎng ; «garden» 挨着 āizhe 
② figurative (verge on) 接近 jiējìn the accusation borders on the absurd 指控近乎荒唐 
border 
▶noun
1 the border of a medieval manuscript: edge, margin, perimeter, circumference, periphery; rim, fringe, verge; sides.
2 the Canadian border: frontier, boundary; borderline, perimeter; marches, bounds.
▶verb
1 the fields were bordered by hedges: surround, enclose, encircle, circle, edge, fringe, bound, flank.
2 the straps are bordered with gold braid: edge, fringe, hem; trim, pipe, finish.
3 the property bordered on the state park: adjoin, abut, be next to, be adjacent to, be contiguous with, touch, join, meet, reach.
PHRASES
border on his tone bordered on contempt: verge on, approach, come close to, be comparable to, approximate to, be tantamount to, be similar to, resemble. CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD border, brim, brink, edge, margin, rim, verge A border is the part of a surface that is nearest to its boundary (a rug with a flowered border)—although it may also refer to the boundary line itself (the border between Vermont and New Hampshire). A margin is a border of a definite width that is usually distinct in appearance from what it encloses; but unlike border, it usually refers to the blankness or emptiness that surrounds something (the margin on a printed page). While border and margin usually refer to something that is circumscribed, edge may refer to only a part of the perimeter (the south edge of the lawn) or the line where two planes or surfaces converge (the edge of the table). Edge can also connote sharpness (the edge of a knife) and can be used metaphorically to suggest tension, harshness, or keenness (there was an edge in her voice; take the edge off their nervousness). Verge may also be used metaphorically to describe the extreme limit of something (on the verge of a nervous breakdown), but in a more literal sense, it sometimes is used of the line or narrow space that marks the limit or termination of something (the verge of a desert or forest). Brink denotes the edge of something very steep or an abrupt division between land and water (the brink of the river), or metaphorically the very final limit before an abrupt change (on the brink of disaster). Rim and brim apply only to things that are circular or curving. But while rim describes the edge or lip of a rounded or cylindrical shape (the rim of a glass), brim refers to the inner side of the rim when the container is completely full (a cup filled to the brim with steaming coffee). However, when one speaks of the brim of a hat, it comes closer to the meaning of margin or border.These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
