born 
BrE bɔːn, AmE bɔrn 

A.  adjective 出生的 chūshēng de to be born; 出生于 she was born into a Jewish family 她出生于一个犹太家庭 to be born deaf/blind 先天失聪/失明 to be a born leader 天生是个领导 a Londoner born and bred 土生土长的伦敦人 in all my born days colloquial 在我的一生中 to be born (out) of [something] figurative «idea, group» 来源于… I wasn't born yesterday 我不是三岁小孩子 there's one born every minute! colloquial 那种傻瓜屡见不鲜！ 
B.  -born /BrE bɔːn, AmE bɔrn
combining form …出生的 … chūshēng de London/Irishborn 伦敦/爱尔兰出生的 
bear
1 
▶verb
1 I come bearing gifts: carry, bring, transport, move, convey, take, fetch, deliver, tote, lug.
2 the bag bore my name: display, exhibit, be marked with, show, carry, have.
3 will it bear his weight? support, carry, hold up, prop up.
4 they can't bear the cost alone: sustain, carry, support, shoulder, absorb, take on.
5 she bore no grudge: harbor, foster, entertain, nurse, nurture, brood over.
6 such a solution does not bear close scrutiny: withstand, stand up to, stand, put up with, take, cope with, handle, sustain, accept.
7 I can't bear having him around: endure, tolerate, put up with, stand, abide, submit to, experience, undergo, go through, countenance, brave, weather, stomach; informal hack, swallow; formal brook; archaic suffer.
8 she bore a son: give birth to, bring forth, deliver, be delivered of, have, produce, spawn, birth; informal drop; literary beget.
9 a shrub that bears yellow berries: produce, yield, give forth, give, grow, provide, supply.
10 bear left at the junction: veer, curve, swerve, fork, diverge, deviate, turn, bend.
PHRASES
bear oneself he bore himself with confidence: conduct oneself, carry oneself, acquit oneself, act, behave, perform; formal comport oneself. bear down on we knew that Sherman's men would be bearing down on us by dawn: advance on, close in on, move in on, converge on. bear fruit we're always amazed when one of her crazy ideas actually bears fruit: yield results, get results, succeed, meet with success, be successful, be effective, be profitable, work, go as planned; informal pay off, come off, pan out, do the trick. bear something in mind the meals are free, but please bear in mind that you are expected to tip the servers: take into account, take into consideration, remember, consider, be mindful, mind, mark, heed. bear on I fail to see how Hugh's personal problem bears on our final decision: be relevant to, appertain to, pertain to, relate to, have a bearing on, have relevance to, apply to, be pertinent to. bear something out we're hoping you can bear out his statement: confirm, corroborate, substantiate, endorse, vindicate, give credence to, support, ratify, warrant, uphold, justify, prove, authenticate, verify. bear with if you'll just bear with us, I'm sure the lights will be back on soon: be patient with, show forbearance toward, make allowances for, tolerate, put up with, endure. bear witness/testimony to the majestic windows bear witness to the architect's fascination with natural light: testify to, be evidence of, be proof of, attest to, evidence, prove, vouch for; demonstrate, show, establish, indicate, reveal, bespeak.
