bottle 
BrE ˈbɒt(ə)l, AmE ˈbɑdl 

A.  noun 
① Countable(for drinks, perfume, medicine) 瓶 píng (for baby) 奶瓶 nǎipíng a bottle of wine 一瓶葡萄酒 
② Uncountablefigurative colloquial (alcohol) to hit or take to the bottle 开始酗酒 kāishǐ xùjiǔ to be on the bottle 酗酒 xùjiǔ 
③ Countable(gas cylinder) 钢瓶 gāngpíng oxygen/gas bottle 氧气瓶/煤气瓶 
④ Uncountable BrE colloquial (courage) 勇气 yǒngqì to lose one's bottle 丧失勇气 
B.  transitive verb 
① (put in bottles) 把…装入瓶中 bǎ… zhuāngrù píng zhōng ‹milk, wine, water›
② BrE (preserve) 把…装瓶腌制 bǎ… zhuāng píng yānzhì ‹fruit, vegetables›PHRASAL VERBS bottle out intransitive verb BrE colloquial 因惧怕而放弃 yīn jùpà ér fàngqì bottle up transitive verb[bottle something up], [bottle up something] 
① (suppress) 抑制 yìzhì ‹emotion›you shouldn't bottle things or your feelings up 你不应该压抑情感 
② (confine) 限制 xiànzhì the blockade kept the navy bottled up in the harbour 海军被封锁在港口内 
bottle 
ˈbädl

▶noun a container, typically made of glass or plastic and with a narrow neck, used for storing drinks or other liquids: wine bottles a bottle of soda pop. 
• the contents of a bottle: he managed to put away a bottle of wine. 
• (the bottle) informal used in reference to heavy drinking: more women are taking to the bottle. 
• a bottle fitted with a nipple for giving milk or other drinks to babies and very young children: a bottle of formula. 
• a large metal cylinder holding liquefied gas. 
▶verb [with object] place (drinks or other liquid) in bottles or jars: the wine is then bottled 
(as adjective bottled) : bottled beer. 
• (usually as adjective bottled) store (gas) in a container in liquefied form: connecting the bottled gas to the stove. 
PHRASES
hit the bottle informal begin to drink heavily.PHRASAL VERBS bottle someone up keep (someone) trapped or contained: he had to stay bottled up in New York. bottle something up repress or conceal feelings over a period of time: learning how to express anger instead of bottling it up 
(as adjective bottled up) : Lily's bottled-up fury.ORIGIN late Middle English (denoting a leather bottle): from Old French boteille, from medieval Latin butticula, diminutive of late Latin buttis ‘cask, wineskin’ (see butt4).
