bottom 
BrE ˈbɒtəm, AmE ˈbɑdəm 

A.  noun 
① (lowest part) 底部 dǐbù (of hill, mountain) 山脚 shānjiǎo your name is at the bottom of the list 你的名字列在名单末尾 from the bottom of one's heart figurative 衷心地 
② (deepest part, underside of container) 底 dǐ they let the rope down to the bottom of the well 他们把绳子放到井底 bottom up 底朝上 bottoms up! BrE colloquial 干杯！ the bottom drops or falls out of [something] figurative 某物行情暴跌 the bottom has fallen or dropped out of the housing market 楼市出现了暴跌 the bottom fell or dropped out of her world 她的生活崩溃了 
③ (lowest rank, position) (of job, career) 最低职位 zuì dī zhíwèi (of class, league) 末位 mòwèi to start at the bottom; 从最基层干起 they're at the bottom of the league 他们联赛排名垫底 
④ figurative (root cause) 根源 gēnyuán to get to the bottom of [something]; 找出某事的起因 to be at the bottom of [something]; 是某事的根源 she's at the bottom of all these rumours 这些流言都是她散布的 at bottom, science is exploration 从本质上讲，科学就是探索 
⑤ (bed of sea, lake, river) 水底 shuǐdǐ to go to the bottom 沉入水底 
⑥ (furthest point of street, garden) 尽头 jìntóu there's a chemist's at the bottom of the street 街尽头有一家药店 
⑦ especially BrE (buttocks) 屁股 pìgu → baby 
A. 
① 
⑧ Clothing [套装的] 下半身 xiàbànshēn a bikini bottom 比基尼泳裤 pyjama/tracksuit bottoms 睡裤/运动裤 
⑨ Auto 最低挡 zuìdīdǎng in bottom 挂一挡 
B.  adjective 
① attributive (lowest) 最下面的 zuì xiàmian de ‹shelf›the bottom layer/part 底层/底部 the bottom half of the list 名单后半部分 
② (last) 排名最后的 páimíng zuìhòu de ‹person, place›to come bottom; 垫底 PHRASAL VERB bottom out intransitive verb «prices, inflation» 降到最低点 jiàngdào zuìdīdiǎn ; «recession» 触底 chùdǐ 
bottom 
ˈbädəm

▶noun (usually the bottom)
1 the lowest point or part: the bottom of the page 
she paused at the bottom of the stairs. 
• the lowest surface on the inside of a container: place the fruit on the bottom of the dish. 
• the part on which a thing rests; the underside: he sat on the bottom of an upturned bucket. 
• the ground under a sea, river, or lake: the liner plunged to the bottom of the sea. 
• (also bottoms) another term for bottomland. 
• the seat of a chair. 
• the lowest position in a competition or ranking: he started at the bottom and now has his own business. 
• the basis or origin: there's a mad scientist at the bottom of it all. 
• (also bottoms) the lower half of a two-piece garment: pajama bottoms 
a skimpy bikini bottom. 
• the lowest part of the hull of a ship, especially the relatively flat portion on either side of the keel. 
• archaic a ship, especially considered as a unit of transport capacity. 
• archaic stamina or strength of character, especially of a horse.
2 informal the buttocks: he climbs the side of the gorge, scratching his bottom unselfconsciously.
3 Baseball the second half of an inning: the bottom of the ninth.
4 Physics one of six flavors of quark. 
▶adjective in the lowest position: the books on the bottom shelf. 
• in the lowest or last position in a competition or ranking: households in the bottom income bracket. 
▶verb [no object] (of a performance or situation) reach the lowest point before stabilizing or improving: interest rates have bottomed out. 
PHRASES
at bottom basically; fundamentally: at bottom, science is exploration. bet your bottom dollar informal stake everything: you can bet your bottom dollar it'll end in tears. the bottom falls (or drops) out collapse or failure occurs: the bottom fell out of the market for classic cars. bottoms up! informal a call to finish one's drink. from the bottom of one's heart see heart. from the bottom up starting at the lower end or beginning of a hierarchy or process and proceeding to the top or to completion: we began to study history from the bottom up. get to the bottom of find an explanation for (a mystery): he hopes to get to the bottom of the scam.DERIVATIVES bottommost 
ˈbädə(m)ˌmōst 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English botm, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch bodem ‘bottom, ground’ and German Boden ‘ground, earth.’
