bracket 
BrE ˈbrakɪt, AmE ˈbrækɪt 

A.  noun 
① Printing (round) 圆括号 yuánkuòhào (square) 方括号 fāngkuòhào in brackets 在括号中 
② (support) (for shelf) 托架 tuōjià (for lamp) 壁灯座 bìdēngzuò 
③ Architecture 支架 zhījià 
④ (category) 等级 děngjí age/income bracket 年龄段/收入等级 
B.  transitive verb 
① Printing (put in brackets) 把…放入括号 bǎ… fàngrù kuòhào (group together in brackets) 用括号把…括在一起 yòng kuòhào bǎ… kuò zài yīqǐ 
② to bracket (together) (categorize) 把…归为一类 bǎ… guī wéi yī lèi to bracket [somebody]/[something] with … 把某人/某事物与…相提并论 bǎ mǒu rén/mǒu shìwù yǔ… xiāng tí bìng lùn 
bracket 
ˈbrakit

▶noun
1 each of a pair of marks [ ] used to enclose words or figures so as to separate them from the context: symbols are given in brackets.
2 [with adjective or noun modifier] a category of people or things that are similar or fall between specified limits: those in a high income bracket.
3 a right-angled support attached to and projecting from a wall for holding a shelf, lamp, or other object.
4 Military the distance between two artillery shots fired either side of the target to establish range.
5 US a diagram representing the sequence of games in a sports tournament, especially as used for making predictions about its outcome: with the March Madness tournament half the fun is filling out your bracket. 
▶verb (brackets, bracketing, bracketed) [with object]
1 enclose (words or figures) in brackets: (as adjective bracketed) : the relevant data are included as bracketed points. 
• Mathematics enclose (a complex expression) in brackets to denote that the whole of the expression rather than just a part of it has a particular relation, such as multiplication or division, to another expression. 
• put (a belief or matter) aside temporarily: he bracketed off the question of God.
2 place (one or more people or things) in the same category or group: he is sometimes bracketed with the “new wave” of film directors.
3 hold or attach (something) by means of a right-angled support: pipes should be bracketed.
4 Military establish the range of (a target) by firing two preliminary shots, one short of the target and the other beyond it. 
• Photography establish (the correct exposure) by taking several pictures with slightly more or less exposure. ORIGIN late 16th century: from French braguette or Spanish bragueta ‘codpiece, bracket, corbel,’ from Provençal braga, from Latin braca, (plural) bracae ‘breeches.’
