brain 
BrE breɪn, AmE breɪn 

A.  noun 
① Anatomy 脑 nǎo brain tissue/cell 脑组织/脑细胞 to blow [somebody's] brains out colloquial 把某人的脑袋打开花 
② (mind) 智力 zhìlì to have a good brain 脑子聪明 to have football on the brain colloquial 对足球着迷 
B.  brains noun plural 
① plus plural verb (intelligence) 智慧 zhìhuì to have brains 聪明 to use one's brains 动脑筋 
② plus singular verb colloquial (intelligent person) 聪明人 cōngmingrén she was the brains behind the operation 她是这次行动的策划者 
C.  transitive verb colloquial 猛击…的头部 měng jī… de tóubù 
brain 
brān

▶noun
1 an organ of soft nervous tissue contained in the skull of vertebrates, functioning as the coordinating center of sensation and intellectual and nervous activity. 
• (brains) the substance of an animal's brain used as food. 
• informal an electronic device with functions comparable to those of the human brain. The human brain consists of three main parts. (i) The forebrain, greatly developed into the cerebrum, consists of two hemispheres joined by a bridge of nerve fibers, and is responsible for thought and control of speech. (ii) The midbrain, the upper part of the tapering brainstem, contains cells involved in eye movements. (iii) The hindbrain, the lower part of the brainstem, contains cells responsible for breathing and for regulating heart action, the flow of digestive juices, and other unconscious actions and processes. The cerebellum, which lies behind the brain stem, plays an important role in the execution of highly skilled movements.
2 intellectual capacity: I didn't have enough brains for the sciences 
success requires brain as well as brawn. 
• (the brains) informal a clever person who supplies the ideas and plans for a group of people: Tom was the brains of the outfit. 
• a person's mind: a tiny alarm bell began to ring in her brain. 
• an exceptionally intelligent person: he was known more as a snappy dresser than a brain. 
▶verb [with object] informal hit (someone) hard on the head with an object: she brained me with a rolling pin. 
PHRASES
beat (or blow) someone's brains out informal injure or kill someone with a hard hit on (or gunshot to) the head. have something on the brain informal be obsessed with something: John has cars on the brain.ORIGIN Old English brægen; related to Dutch brein .
