brand 
BrE brand, AmE brænd 

A.  noun 
① Busn (make) 品牌 pǐnpái a well-known brand 名牌 
② (type, kind) 类型 lèixíng 
③ (on hide, skin) 烙印 làoyìn ; figurative (stigma) 污名 wūmíng 
④ literary (burning wood) 燃烧的木块 ránshāo de mùkuài 
B.  transitive verb 
① (mark) 给…打上烙印 gěi… dǎshang làoyìn ‹cattle›; figurative 使刻骨铭心 shǐ kègǔ-míngxīn the image was branded on my memory 这一形象铭刻在我的记忆中 
② figurative (label) 加污名于 jiā wūmíng yú to brand [somebody] (as) [something]; 给某人加上…的污名 to be branded as [something]; 被丑化为… 
brand 
brand

▶noun
1 a type of product manufactured by a particular company under a particular name: a new brand of detergent. 
• a brand name: the company will market computer software under its own brand. 
• a particular identity or image regarded as an asset: you can still invent your own career, be your own brand 
the Michael Jordan brand certainly hasn't hurt them. 
• a particular type or kind of something: his incisive brand of intelligence.
2 an identifying mark burned on livestock or (especially formerly) criminals or slaves with a branding iron. 
• archaic a branding iron. 
• a habit, trait, or quality that causes someone public shame or disgrace: the brand of Paula's alcoholism.
3 a piece of burning or smoldering wood: he took two burning brands from the fire. 
• literary a torch.
4 literary a sword. 
▶verb [with object]
1 mark (an animal, formerly a criminal or slave) with a branding iron. 
• mark indelibly: an ointment that branded her with unsightly violet-colored splotches. 
• describe (someone or something) as something bad or shameful: the do-gooders branded us as politically incorrect 
[with object and complement] : she was branded a liar.
2 assign a brand name to: (as adjective branded) : branded goods at low prices. 
• (as noun branding) the promotion of a particular product or company by means of advertising and distinctive design. DERIVATIVES brander nounORIGIN Old English, of Germanic origin; related to German Brand, also to burn1. The word originally meant ‘burning’ or ‘a piece of burning or smoldering wood’ ( sense
3 of the noun); the verb sense ‘mark permanently with a hot iron’ dates from late Middle English. The noun sense ‘mark of ownership made by branding,’ based on the latter, arose in the mid 17th century, and from it is derived sense
1 (early 19th century).
