branch 
BrE brɑːn(t)ʃ, AmE bræn(t)ʃ 

A.  noun 
① (bough) 树枝 shùzhī 
② figurative (smaller or less important part) (gen) 分支 fēnzhī (of road, pipe) 支路 zhīlù (of river) 支流 zhīliú (of study) 分科 fēnkē 
③ (division) (of shop) 分店 fēndiàn (of bank) 支行 zhīháng (of company) 分公司 fēngōngsī (of organization) 分部 fēnbù (of library) 分馆 fēnguǎn main branch (of company) 总部 
④ Computing 分支指令 fēnzhī zhǐlìng 
B.  intransitive verb 
① «plant» 出枝桠 chū zhīyā 
② «road, river» 分叉 fēnchà PHRASAL VERBS branch off: intransitive verb to branch off (from [something]); «road» （从某处）分岔 figurative 偏离（某主题） piānlí(mǒu zhǔtí) branch out: intransitive verb to branch out (into [something]); 将活动范围扩大（到某处） jiāng huódòng fànwéi kuòdà(dào mǒu chù) to branch out on one's own 独立创业 dúlì chuàngyè 
branch 
bran(t)SH

▶noun a part of a tree that grows out from the trunk or from a bough. 
• a lateral extension or subdivision extending from the main part of something, typically one extending from a river, road, or railway: a branch of the Susquehanna River. 
• a division or office of a large business or organization, operating locally or having a particular function: he went to work at our Boston branch. 
• a conceptual subdivision of something, especially a family, group of languages, or a subject: a branch of mathematics called graph theory. 
• Computing a control structure in which one of several alternative sets of program statements is selected for execution. 
▶verb [no object] (of a road or path) divide into one or more subdivisions. 
• (of a tree or plant) bear or send out branches: (as adjective branched) : the common sea lavender can be identified by its branched stem. 
• (branch off) diverge from the main route or part: the road branched off at the town 
figurative : Ellington was constantly branching off with new musical styles. 
• (branch out) extend or expand one's activities or interests in a new direction: the company is branching out into Europe. DERIVATIVES branchlet 
ˈbran(t)SHlət 
noun. branchlike 
-ˌlīk 
adjective. branchy 
ˈbran(t)SHē 
adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: from Old French branche, from late Latin branca ‘paw.’
