breath 
BrE brɛθ, AmE brɛθ 
noun 
① Uncountable(air taken in or expelled from lungs) 气息 qìxī to smell [something] on [somebody's] breath 从某人呼出的气中闻到某气味 (to have) bad breath （有）口臭 under one's breath 低声地 to be the breath of life (to [somebody]) 是（某人）生命中不可或缺的东西 
② Uncountable(breathing) 吸入的空气 xīrù de kōngqì to stop/pause for breath 停下来/暂停下来喘气 to draw breath literal 吸气 xīqì figurative literary 活着 huózhe as kind a man as ever drew breath 天底下最善良的人 (to be) out of breath 上气不接下气 (to be) short of breath 呼吸困难 to get one's breath back BrE 喘过气来 I hardly had time to get my breath back between meetings 我的会一个接一个，几乎没时间喘口气 to hold one's breath 屏住呼吸 don't hold your breath! colloquial (no need for immediate action, excitement) 别急！ to catch one's breath 歇口气 to take [somebody's] breath away figurative 使某人惊叹 to save one's breath colloquial 不费口舌 to waste one's breath (doing [something]) 白费口舌（做某事） 
③ Countable(inhalation) 吸气 xīqì to take a deep breath literal 深吸一口气 figurative 注意听着 zhùyì tīngzhe a breath of fresh air literal (clean air) 新鲜空气 figurative (refreshing change) 新鲜的刺激 xīnxiān de cìjī to go outside for a breath of (fresh) air 出去透透气 to count to 50 in a single breath 一口气数到50 in the same breath 同时 with one's last or dying breath 在弥留之际 to draw one's last breath literary 死去 
④ Countablesingular (air, movement) 轻拂 qīngfú a breath of air or wind 一丝微风 the first breath of spring figurative 第一股春天的气息 
⑤ Countablesingular figurative (hint, suggestion) 迹象 jìxiàng a breath of [something]; 某事的迹象 a breath of scandal 丑闻的蛛丝马迹 
breath 
breTH

▶noun the air taken into or expelled from the lungs: I was gasping for breath 
his breath smelled of garlic. 
• an inhalation or exhalation of air from the lungs: she drew in a quick breath 
take three deep breaths. 
• archaic the power of breathing; life. 
• a brief moment; the time required for one act of respiration: in Las Vegas, they marry you in a breath. 
• [in singular] a slight movement of air: the weather was balmy, not a breath of wind. 
• [in singular] a sign, hint, or suggestion: he avoided the slightest breath of scandal. 
PHRASES
the breath of life a thing that someone needs or depends on: politics has been the breath of life to her for 50 years. catch one's breath
1 cease breathing momentarily in surprise or fear.
2 rest after exercise to restore normal breathing: she stood for a few moments, catching her breath. don't hold your breath informal used hyperbolically to indicate that something is likely to take a long time: don't hold your breath waiting for Congress to clean up political action committees. draw breath breathe in. get one's breath (back) begin to breathe normally again after exercise or exertion.hold one's breath cease breathing temporarily. 
• be in a state of suspense or anticipation: France held its breath while the Senate chose its new president. in the same (or next) breath at the same time: he congratulated Simon on his victory but in the same breath dismissed it. last breath the last moment of one's life (often used hyperbolically); death: she would fight to the last breath to preserve her good name. out of breath gasping for air, typically after exercise: he arrived on the top floor out of breath. save one's breath stop wasting time in futile talk: save your breath; I know all about it. take someone's breath away astonish or inspire someone with awed respect or delight. under (or below) one's breath in a very quiet voice; almost inaudibly: he swore violently under his breath. Compare with sotto voce. waste one's breath talk or give advice without effect: I have better things to do than waste my breath arguing.ORIGIN Old English brǣth ‘smell, scent,’ of Germanic origin; related to brood .
