bread 
BrE brɛd, AmE brɛd 
nounUncountable
① Culinary 面包 miànbāo to be on bread and water 吃粗茶淡饭 to know which side one's bread is buttered colloquial 知道自己的利益所在 to break bread (with [somebody]) dated （与某人）共餐 to cast one's bread upon the waters figurative 真心行善不图报 bread and wine Religion 圣餐 
② colloquial (money) 钱 qián 
③ (livelihood) 生计 shēngjì to earn one's (daily) bread 谋生 to take the bread out of [somebody's] mouth 砸某人的饭碗 to put bread on the table 挣钱糊口 
bread 
bred

▶noun
1 food made of flour, water, and yeast or another leavening agent, mixed together and baked: a loaf of bread 
[as modifier] : a bread roll 
Italian breads. 
• the bread or wafer used in the Eucharist: altar bread. 
• the food that one needs in order to live: his day job puts bread on the table.
2 informal money: I hate doing this, but I need the bread. 
▶verb [with object] coat (food) in breadcrumbs before cooking: bread the chicken and fry it in oil. 
PHRASES
the best (or greatest) thing since sliced bread informal used to emphasize one's enthusiasm about a new idea, person, or thing: they think that she is the greatest thing since sliced bread. bread and circuses a diet of entertainment or political policies on which the masses are fed to keep them happy and docile. [translating Latin panem et circenses (Juvenal's Satires, x.80).] bread and water a frugal diet that is eaten in poverty, chosen in abstinence, or given as a punishment. bread and wine the consecrated elements used in the celebration of the Eucharist; the sacrament of the Eucharist. the bread of life something regarded as a source of spiritual nourishment: the Roman Catholic Church and faith were the bread of life to the subordinate classes. break bread celebrate the Eucharist. 
• literary share a meal with someone. cast one's bread upon the waters do good without expecting gratitude or reward. [with biblical allusion to Eccles. 11:1.] daily bread the money or food that one needs in order to live: she earned her daily bread by working long hours. know which side one's bread is buttered (on) informal know where one's advantage lies.one cannot live by bread alone people have spiritual as well as physical needs. [with biblical allusion to Deut. 8:3, Matt. 4:4.] take the bread out of (or from) people's mouths deprive people of their livings by competition or unfair working practices. want one's bread buttered on both sides informal want more than is practicable or than is reasonable to expect.ORIGIN Old English brēad, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch brood and German Brot .
