brick 
BrE brɪk, AmE brɪk 

A.  noun 
① Countable and uncountableConstruction 砖 zhuān → cat 
①; made of brick 砖砌的 zhuānqì de before noun 砖砌的 zhuānqì de to bang one's head against a brick wall colloquial 屡屡碰壁 to come or run up against or hit a brick wall colloquial 碰钉子 I might as well be talking to a brick wall colloquial 我还不如对着一堵砖墙讲呢 
② Countable(block) 砖块状物 zhuānkuàizhuàngwù a brick of ice cream 一方冰激凌 
③ Countable BrE (toy) 积木 jīmù 
④ Countable BrE colloquial dated (reliable person) 可靠的朋友 kěkào de péngyou 
B.  transitive verb BrE slang (be afraid) 害怕 hàipà ; (be worried) 担心 dānxīn to be bricking it 担心得要命 PHRASAL VERB brick up transitive verb [brick something up], [brick up something] 用砖堵住 yòng zhuān dǔzhù ‹hole, window›
brick 
brik

▶noun
1 a small rectangular block typically made of fired or sun-dried clay, used in building. 
• bricks collectively as a building material: this mill was built of brick 
[as modifier] : a large brick building. 
• a small, rectangular object: a brick of ice cream.
2 informal a large and relatively heavy mobile phone, typically an early model with limited functionality: I had one of those Motorola bricks as my first cell phone. 
• a smartphone or other electronic device that has completely ceased to function: while updating the firmware the USB cable got disconnected and the phone is now a brick.
3 British informal, dated a generous, helpful, and reliable person. 
▶verb [with object]
1 block or enclose with a wall of bricks: the doors have been bricked up.
2 informal cause (a smartphone or other electronic device) to become completely unable to function, typically on a permanent basis: installing an unofficial OS voids the warranty and may brick the phone. 
PHRASES
be built like a brick shithouse see shithouse. bricks and mortar buildings: David knows how inefficient it is to tie up your capital in bricks and mortar. 
• [as modifier] used to denote a business that operates conventionally rather than (or as well as) over the Internet: the bricks-and-mortar banks. Compare with clicks and mortar. a brick short of a load see short. hit (or run into) a brick wall face an insuperable problem or obstacle while trying to do something. like a ton of bricks informal with crushing weight, force, or authority: all her years of marriage suddenly fell on her like a ton of bricks. shit a brick (or bricks) vulgar slang be extremely anxious or nervous. you can't make bricks without straw proverb nothing can be made or accomplished without proper or adequate material or information. [with biblical allusion to Exodus 5; “without straw” meant “without having straw provided” (i.e., the Israelites were required to gather the straw for themselves). A misinterpretation has led to the current sense.]ORIGIN late Middle English: from Middle Low German, Middle Dutch bricke, brike; probably reinforced by Old French brique; of unknown ultimate origin.
