bridge 
BrE brɪdʒ, AmE brɪdʒ 

A.  noun 
① CountableConstruction 桥梁 qiáoliáng a bridge over or across [something]; 架在…上方的桥 to be water under the bridge figurative 事情都过去了 a lot of water has flowed under the bridge since then figurative 自那以后已然物是人非 we'll cross that bridge when we come to it figurative 我们暂且把那个问题放一放 
② Countablefigurative (link) 纽带 niǔdài to act as a/build a bridge between [something] and [something] 作为/建立一事与另一事之间的联系 
③ Countable(intermediate stage) 过渡 guòdù a bridge to a new career 通向新职业的踏板 
④ CountableNautical 舰桥 jiànqiáo 
⑤ Countable(of nose) 鼻梁 bíliáng 
⑥ Countable(of glasses) 鼻梁架 bíliángjià 
⑦ CountableMusic 琴马 qínmǎ 
⑧ CountableDentistry 齿桥 chǐqiáo 
⑨ UncountableGames 桥牌 qiáopái 
B.  transitive verb 
① Construction 在…上架桥 zài… shang jià qiáo ‹river›
② figurative (reduce) 消除 xiāochú to bridge the gap between two countries/levels 消除两国之间的隔阂/两个层次之间的差距 
③ figurative (fill in) 弥补 míbǔ to bridge a gap in the conversation 打破冷场局面 
④ (span) 跨越 kuàyuè ‹period, centuries, eras›
bridge
1 
brij

▶noun
1 a structure carrying a road, path, railroad, or canal across a river, ravine, road, railroad, or other obstacle: bridge1 a bridge across the river 
a railroad bridge. 
• something that is intended to reconcile or form a connection between two things: a committee that was formed to create a bridge between rival parties. 
• a partial denture supported by natural teeth on either side. See also bridgework. 
• the support formed by the hand for the forward part of a billiard cue. 
• a long stick with a frame at the end that is used to support a cue for a shot that is otherwise hard to reach. 
• Music an upright piece of wood on a string instrument over which the strings are stretched. 
• Music a bridge passage or middle eight. 
• short for land bridge.
2 the elevated, enclosed platform on a ship from which the captain and officers direct operations.
3 the upper bony part of a person's nose: he pushed his spectacles further up the bridge of his nose. 
• the central part of a pair of glasses, fitting over this: these sunglasses have a special nose bridge for comfort.
4 an electric circuit with two branches across which a detector or load is connected. These circuits are used to measure resistance or other property by equalizing the potential across the two ends of a detector, or to rectify an alternating voltage or current. 
▶verb [with object] be a bridge over (something): a covered walkway that bridged the gardens. 
• build a bridge over (something): earlier attempts to bridge the channel had failed. 
• make (a difference between two groups) smaller or less significant: bridging the gap between avant garde art and popular culture. 
PHRASES
a bridge too far a step or act that is regarded as being too drastic to take: having Botox would be a bridge too far. 
• something that is very difficult to achieve: that second goal proved a bridge too far. burn one's bridges see burn1. cross that bridge when one comes to it deal with a problem when and if it arises. I have a bridge to sell you US used to indicate that a particular statement or claim could only be believed by someone who is very gullible: if you think that he will make things better, then I have a bridge to sell you. [1940s: with reference to the practices of con artists in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, especially George 
C.  Parker (1870–1936), who pretended to own the Brooklyn Bridge in order to trick people into buying it.]DERIVATIVES bridgeable 
ˈbrijəb(ə)l 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English brycg (noun), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch brug and German Brücke .
