brief 
BrE briːf, AmE brif 

A.  adjective 
① (lasting a short time) 短暂的 duǎnzàn de ‹visit, period, life, career›for a or one brief moment 一瞬间 a few brief hours 短短几小时 
② (concise) 简洁的 jiǎnjié de the news in brief 简要新闻 
③ (curt) 唐突无礼的 tángtū wúlǐ de to be brief with [somebody]; 对某人不耐烦 
④ (scanty) 暴露的 bàolù de ‹nightdress, bikini›brief skirt 超短裙 
B.  in brief adverb phrase 简言之 jiǎn yán zhi 
C.  noun BrE 
① (role, responsibility) 职责 zhízé it is your brief to …, your brief is to … 你的任务是… to fall within/to exceed [somebody's] brief 属于/超出某人的职权范围 
② (instructions) 任务介绍 rènwu jièshào designer's brief 设计师细则 to stick to a brief 做分内事 
③ Law (summary) 案情摘要 ànqíng zhāiyào (case) 辩护委托 biànhù wěituō to hold a brief for [somebody] (as counsel) 当某人的辩护律师 (as advocate) 支持某人 to hold no brief for [somebody]/[something] 不支持某人/某事物 
D.  briefs noun plural 短内裤 duǎn nèikù 
E.  transitive verb 
① (inform) 向…通报情况 xiàng… tōngbào qíngkuàng ‹journalists›Military 向…布置基本任务 xiàng… bùzhì jīběn rènwu ‹troops, crew›to be well briefed 完全掌握情况 
② Law 向…提供案情摘要 xiàng… tígōng ànqíng zhāiyào ‹lawyer›to brief [somebody] to do [something] 向某人提供案情摘要以便做某事 
brief 
brēf

▶adjective of short duration: the president made a brief visit to Moscow. 
• concise in expression; using few words: introductions were brief and polite. 
• (of a piece of clothing) not covering much of the body; scanty: Alice sported a pair of extremely brief black shorts. 
▶noun a concise statement or summary: their comments were cribbed right from industry briefs. 
• a set of instructions given to a person about a job or task: his brief is to turn around the country's economy. 
• US a written summary of the facts and legal points supporting one side of a case, for presentation to a court. 
• a letter from the Pope to a person or community on a matter of discipline. 
▶verb [with object] instruct or inform (someone) thoroughly, especially in preparation for a task: she briefed him on last week's decisions. 
PHRASES
hold no brief for not support or argue in favor of: I hold no brief for the president. in brief in a few words; in short: he is, in brief, the embodiment of evil 
the news in brief.DERIVATIVES briefness 
ˈbrēfnəs 
nounORIGIN Middle English: from Old French brief, from Latin brevis ‘short.’ The noun is via late Latin breve ‘note, dispatch,’ hence ‘an official letter.’
