bright 
BrE brʌɪt, AmE braɪt 

A.  adjective 
① (vivid) 鲜艳的 xiānyàn de ‹colour, clothes›he went bright red 他脸涨得通红 
② (luminous, light, shiny) 明亮的 míngliàng de ‹room, star, eyes›
③ (clear) 晴朗的 qínglǎng de ‹weather, period›a bright spell 一段晴朗的日子 
④ (clever, original) 聪明的 cōngming de it is bright of [somebody] (to do [something]); 某人（做某事）是明智的 a bright idea 好主意 
⑤ (cheerful, optimistic) 快活的 kuàihuo de ‹person, expression›
⑥ (promising) 光明的 guāngmíng de ‹future›in brighter days 在更有希望的日子里 to look on the bright side 持乐观态度 
B.  adverb especially literary 明亮地 míngliàng de ‹shine, burn›
C.  bright and early adverb phrase 大清早 dà qīngzǎo you're up bright and early this morning 你今天起得可真早啊 
bright 
brīt

▶adjective
1 giving out or reflecting a lot of light; shining: I have problems seeing when the sun is bright 
her bright, dark eyes. 
• full of light: the rooms are bright and spacious. 
• (of a period of time) having sunny, cloudless weather: the long, bright days of June. 
• having a vivid color: the bright flowers 
a bright tie. 
• (of color) vivid and bold: the bright green leaves.
2 (of sound) clear, vibrant, and typically high-pitched: her voice is fresh and bright.
3 (of a person, idea, or remark) intelligent and quick-witted: a bright young journalist 
a suggestion box for bright ideas.
4 giving an appearance of cheerful liveliness: she gave a bright smile. 
• (of someone's future) likely to be successful and happy: the bright prospects for her early retirement. 
▶adverb luminously: a full moon shining bright. 
▶noun (brights)
1 bold and vivid colors: webbed gloves in neon brights.
2 North American headlights switched to high beam: he turned the brights on, and we drove along the dirt road. 
PHRASES
bright and early very early in the morning. the bright lights the glamor and excitement of the city: they hankered for the bright lights of the capital. look on the bright side be optimistic or cheerful in spite of difficulties.DERIVATIVES brightish adjectiveORIGIN Old English beorht, of Germanic origin.
