broad 
BrE brɔːd, AmE brɔd 

A.  adjective 
① (wide) 宽阔的 kuānkuò de ‹street, river›; 体宽的 tǐ kuān de ‹person›; 宽的 kuān de ‹chest, face, shoulders›she's broad in the hips 她臀部宽大 his mouth widened into a broad grin 他咧嘴笑了 to grow broader 身体长得更魁梧 to make [something] broader 拓宽某物 to have a broad back figurative 勇挑重担 it's as broad as it's long BrE 两种选择都一样 
② attributive (extensive) 辽阔的 liáokuò de ‹area›
③ (wide-ranging, far-reaching) 广泛的 guǎngfàn de ‹choice, interests, usage, support›in the broadest sense (of the term/word) 从（这个术语/词）最广义的角度讲 
④ (general) 概括的 gàikuò de ‹description, introduction›; 宽泛的 kuānfàn de ‹principle›to reach broad agreement 大体达成一致 
⑤ (unsubtle) 直白的 zhíbái de ‹hint›
⑥ usually attributive Linguistics 乡音重的 xiāngyīn zhòng de ‹accent, dialect›poems written in broad Scots 用苏格兰方言写的诗 a broad Yorkshire accent 很重的约克郡口音 
⑦ attributive (complete) in broad daylight 光天化日之下 guāng tiān huà rì zhī xià 
⑧ (liberal) 开明的 kāimíng de ‹mind, ideas›
B.  noun 
① AmE colloquial pejorative (woman) 娘们儿 niángmenr colloquial pejorative 
② Anatomy the broad of the or one's back 肩膀 jiānbǎng 
broad 
brôd

▶adjective
1 having an ample distance from side to side; wide: a broad staircase. 
• (after a measurement) giving the distance from side to side: the valley is three miles long and half a mile broad. 
• large in area; spacious: a broad expanse of prairie.
2 covering a large number and wide scope of subjects or areas: a broad range of experience. 
• having or incorporating a wide range of meanings, applications, or kinds of things; loosely defined: three broad categories of mutual funds. 
• including or coming from many people of many kinds: broad support for the president's foreign policy.
3 general; without detail: a broad outline of NATO's position. 
• (of a hint) clear and unambiguous; not subtle: a broad hint. 
• somewhat coarse and indecent: what we regard as broad or even bawdy is a fact of nature to him. 
• (of a phonetic transcription) showing only meaningful distinctions in sound and ignoring minor details.
4 (of a regional accent) very noticeable and strong: his broad Bronx accent. 
▶noun North American informal a woman. 
PHRASES
broad in the beam fat around the hips. in broad daylight during the day, when it is light, and surprising or unexpected for this reason: the kidnapping took place in broad daylight.DERIVATIVES broadness 
ˈbrôdnəs 
nounORIGIN Old English brād, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch breed and German breit .
