brown 
BrE braʊn, AmE braʊn 

A.  adjective 
① (in colour) 棕色的 zōngsè de to go or turn brown 变成棕色 to paint/dye [something] brown 把某物漆成/染成棕色 dark or deep brown 深褐色的 light or pale brown 浅棕色的 
② (tanned) 晒黑的 shàihēi de ‹person, face, skin›to be very brown 被晒得黝黑 to go brown 被晒黑 
③ (as racial feature) 棕色人种的 zōngsè rénzhǒng de ‹skin›
B.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(colour) 棕色 zōngsè in brown 穿棕色衣服 a deep brown 深褐色 
② Countable(snooker ball) 棕色球 zōngsè qiú 
C.  transitive verb 使…呈褐色 shǐ… chéng hèsè ‹meat, potatoes›to brown [something] under the grill 用烤架把某物烤成褐色 
D.  intransitive verb «meat, potatoes» 变成褐色 biànchéng hèsè 
brown 
broun

▶adjective
1 of a color produced by mixing red, yellow, and blue, as of dark wood or rich soil: an old brown coat 
she had warm brown eyes. 
• (of bread) light brown in color and typically made with unbleached or unrefined wholewheat flour.
2 (of a person) dark-skinned or suntanned: his face was brown from the sun. 
• (also Brown) relating or belonging to a human group characterized as having relatively dark-colored skin (chiefly used of peoples of ancestry other than European or African): I interviewed 60 mostly black and brown leaders around our nation. 
▶noun brown color or pigment: the brown of his eyes 
a pair of boots in brown 
the print is rich with velvety browns. 
• brown clothes or material: a woman all in brown. 
▶verb make or become brown, typically by cooking: [with object] : a skillet in which food has been browned 
[no object] : bake the pizza until the cheese has browned. 
PHRASES
(as) brown as a berry (of a person) very suntanned. do something up brown do something thoroughly or completely: [as adjective] : a real picnic, done up brown according to all the rules. in a brown study see study. PHRASAL VERBS brown someone off (usually as adjective browned off) make someone feel irritated or depressed: they are getting browned off with the overtime.DERIVATIVES brownness noun. browny 
ˈbrounē 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English brūn, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch bruin and German braun .
