bubble 
BrE ˈbʌb(ə)l, AmE ˈbəb(ə)l 

A.  noun 
① (in air, liquid, paintwork) 气泡 qìpào to blow bubbles 吹泡泡 she was up to her elbows in bubbles 她忙着洗餐具 the bubble has burst figurative 成为泡影 
② Busn, Finance (inflated price) 泡沫 pàomò the house price bubble 房价泡沫 
③ (sound of bubbling) 汩汩声 gǔgǔ shēng 
④ Medicine (germ-free chamber) 无菌室 wújūnshì 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (form bubbles) «liquid» 起泡 qǐpào to bubble beneath the surface figurative 潜涌 
② (be lively, happy) 生气勃勃 shēngqì bóbó to bubble with 充满着 ‹confidence, enthusiasm, ideas›
③ (make bubbling sound) 发汩汩声 fā gǔgǔ shēng PHRASAL VERBS bubble over intransitive verb 
① (be full of) 洋溢 yángyì she was bubbling over with suggestions 她滔滔不绝地提建议 
② (overflow) «liquid, stew» 沸溢 fèi yì bubble up intransitive verb «liquid, gas» 冒泡 màopào 
bubble 
ˈbəb(ə)l

▶noun
1 a thin sphere of liquid enclosing air or another gas. 
• an air- or gas-filled spherical cavity in a liquid or a solidified liquid such as glass or amber.
2 used to refer to a good or fortunate situation that is isolated from reality or unlikely to last: we both lived in a bubble, the kind provided by occupying a privileged pied-à-terre in Greenwich Village. 
• used to refer to a significant, usually rapid, increase in asset prices that is soon followed by a collapse in prices and typically arises from speculation or enthusiasm rather than intrinsic increases in value: the US economy squandered trillions as a result of the 1990s stock market bubble 
many companies enjoyed rapid expansion before the bubble burst.
3 a transparent domed cover or enclosure: piglets born into a sterile bubble. 
• a place or position that is protected from danger or unpleasant reality: they are not on tour packages seeing foreign ports from a bubble.
4 (also bubble shell) a marine mollusk that typically has a thin scroll-like shell. [Bullidae and other families, order Cephalaspidea, class Gastropoda.] 
▶verb [no object] (of a liquid) contain bubbles of air or gas rising to the surface: a pot of soup bubbled away on the stove. 
• (often as adjective bubbling) make a sound resembling this: a bubbling fountain. 
• (bubble with or over with) (of a person) be exuberantly filled with an irrepressible positive feeling: Ellen was bubbling with such enthusiasm. 
• (bubble up) (especially of a negative feeling) become more intense and approach the point of being vehemently expressed: the fury bubbling up inside her. 
PHRASES
burst someone's bubble shatter someone's illusions about something or destroy someone's sense of well-being. on the bubble North American informal (of a sports player or team) last or among the last awaiting news about qualifying for the final place in a competition. [from sit on the bubble, with the implication that the bubble may burst.]ORIGIN Middle English: partly imitative, partly an alteration of burble .
