budget 
BrE ˈbʌdʒɪt, AmE ˈbədʒət 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(personal, commercial) 预算 yùsuàn to go over/stay within budget 超出/未超出预算 to be on a tight budget 预算很紧 my budget doesn't run to expensive wines 我手上的钱买不起昂贵的酒 
② BrE Politics ( also Budget) 预算案 yùsuàn'àn to beat the Budget 预算案公布前抢先交易 before noun 预算的 yùsuàn de ‹cuts, surplus›
B.  adjectivebefore noun (cheap) 便宜的 piányi de ‹hotel›; 低廉的 dīlián de ‹price›; 花钱少的 huāqián shǎo de ‹holiday›
C.  transitive verb 把…编入预算 bǎ… biānrù yùsuàn ‹(sum of) money›I've budgeted £400 for next year's holiday 我准备明年花400英镑度假 
D.  intransitive verb «company, institution» 做预算安排 zuò yùsuàn ānpái firms that do not budget properly 预算做得不好的公司 we're budgeting for next year's holiday 我们在计划明年的度假费用 
budget 
ˈbəjət

▶noun
1 an estimate of income and expenditure for a set period of time: keep within the household budget 
[as modifier] : a budget deficit. 
• an annual or other regular estimate of national revenue and expenditure put forward by the government, often including details of changes in taxation. 
• the amount of money needed or available for a purpose: they have a limited budget.
2 archaic a quantity of material, typically that which is written or printed. 
▶verb (budgets, budgeting, budgeted) [no object] allow or provide a particular amount of money in a budget: the university is budgeting for a deficit 
(as noun budgeting) : corporate planning and budgeting. 
• [with object] provide (a sum of money) for a particular purpose from a budget: the council proposes to budget $100,000 to provide grants 
(as adjective budgeted) : a budgeted figure of $31,000. 
▶adjective [attributive] inexpensive: a budget guitar. 
PHRASES
on a budget with a restricted amount of money: we're traveling on a budget.ORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French bougette, diminutive of bouge ‘leather bag,’ from Latin bulga ‘leather bag, knapsack,’ of Gaulish origin. Compare with bulge. The word originally meant a pouch or wallet, and later its contents. In the mid 18th century, the Chancellor of the Exchequer in the UK, in presenting his annual statement, was said “to open the budget.” In the late 19th century the use of the term was extended from governmental to private or commercial finances.
