bulk 
BrE bʌlk, AmE bəlk 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(large quantity) 大量 dàliàng to buy/sell [something] in bulk 大批购买/出售某物 before noun 大宗的 dàzōng de ‹order, supplies›bulk raw materials 大批原材料 bulk discounts are available 量大可打折 
② Uncountable(majority) 大部分 dàbùfen 
③ Uncountable(large size) 大块 dàkuài the dark bulk of the manor house 阴森高大的庄园主宅第 
④ Countable(large body) 肥硕的身躯 féishuò de shēnqū 
⑤ Uncountable(dietary fibre) 粗纤维食品 cūxiānwéi shípǐn 
B.  intransitive verb to bulk large «idea, theme, memory» 显得重要 xiǎn de zhòngyào these matters bulk large in his eyes 这些事情在他眼里很重要 
bulk 
bəlk

▶noun the mass or magnitude of something large: the sheer bulk of the bags. 
• a large mass or shape, for example of a building or a heavy body: he moved quickly in spite of his bulk. 
• [as modifier] large in quantity or amount: bulk orders of more than 100 copies. 
• (the bulk) the majority or greater part of something: the bulk of the traffic had passed. 
• roughage in food: bread and potatoes supply energy, essential protein, and bulk. 
• cargo that is an unpackaged mass such as grain, oil, or milk. 
▶verb
1 [no object] be or seem to be of great size or importance: territorial questions bulked large in diplomatic relations.
2 [with object] treat (a product) so that its quantity appears greater than it in fact is: traders were bulking up their flour with chalk. 
• [no object] (bulk up) build up body mass, typically in training for athletic events. 
PHRASES
in bulk
1 (especially of goods) in large quantities, usually at a reduced price: buying tomatoes in bulk from a local farmer.
2 (of a cargo or commodity) loose; not packaged: sugar is imported in bulk and bagged on the island.ORIGIN Middle English: the senses ‘cargo as a whole’ and ‘heap, large quantity’ (the earliest recorded) are probably from Old Norse búlki ‘cargo’; the origin of other senses remains uncertain, perhaps arising by alteration of obsolete bouk ‘belly, body.’ The original senses are also reflected in the phrases break bulk and in bulk.
