burn
1 
BrE bəːn, AmE bərn 

A.  transitive verb(past tense, past participle burned or especially BrE burnt) 
① (damage by heat or fire) 烧毁 shāohuǐ to burn [something] to ashes/to a cinder or crisp 把某物烧成灰/烧焦 to burn [somebody] alive 把某人活活烧死 to burn [somebody] to death 把某人烧死 
② (use) 烧 shāo ‹fuel›the system burns too much oil 这个系统太费油 
③ (damage accidentally) 烧坏 shāohuài ‹possessions, clothes›; 烧出 shāochū ‹hole›; «fire» 烧伤 shāoshāng ‹part of body›; «heat» 烫伤 tàngshāng ‹part of body›he burned his mouth on the hot soup 他喝热汤烫伤了嘴 their skin was burnt by the sun; 他们的皮肤被阳光灼伤了 to burn one's fingers, to get one's fingers burnt figurative 因考虑不周而蒙受损失 to burn one's boats or bridges figurative 自断后路 burnt into one's memory 铭刻在记忆中的 the experience burned itself into my memory 这一经历在我的记忆中打下了烙印 → candle 
④ (spoil, overcook) 烧糊 shāohú ‹milk›; 烤焦 kǎojiāo ‹cake, meat›
⑤ Computing (put information on) 刻录 kèlù ‹CD›
B.  intransitive verb(past tense, past participle burned or especially BrE burnt) 
① (be consumed by fire) 烧毁 shāohuǐ their house burnt to the ground 他们的房子被大火夷为平地 to fiddle while Rome burns proverb 大难临头仍歌舞升平 
② (produce flames and heat) «wood, fire» 燃烧 ránshāo coal burns well in this stove 这炉子烧煤很好 the fire burned (down) low 火势减弱了 
③ (be switched on) 发光 fāguāng a light was burning in the hall 大厅里亮着一盏灯 
④ (be overcooked, spoiled) «food, dinner» 烧糊 shāohú 
⑤ (be painful, sore) «part of body, wound» 火辣辣地痛 huǒlàlà de tòng 
⑥ (be sunburnt) «person, part of body» 晒伤 shàishāng 
⑦ figurative (be aroused) 渴望 kěwàng to burn with desire (for [somebody]/[something]); 渴望（得到某人/某事物） to burn with impatience 急不可待 to burn for revenge 渴望复仇 
⑧ (eat into) «acid» 腐蚀 fǔshí 
C.  noun 
① (injury, mark) (from fire) 烧伤 shāoshāng (from heat) 烫伤 tàngshāng (from sun) 晒伤 shàishāng severe/superficial/slight burns 严重/表面/轻微烧伤 cigarette burns 烟头烫伤 rope burns 绳子勒痕 there were burns all over the furniture 家具上满是烧灼的痕迹 
② (consumption of fuel) 燃料消耗 ránliào xiāohào PHRASAL VERBS burn away 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (continue to burn) «fire, flame» 持续燃烧 chíxù ránshāo 
② (be consumed by fire) «log, candle» 烧掉 shāodiào 
B.  transitive verb[burn something away, burn away something] 烧掉 shāodiào ‹wood, paint, skin›burn down 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (be destroyed) «house» 烧毁 shāohuǐ 
② (have lower flame) «stick» 烧短 shāoduǎn ; «fire» 减弱 jiǎnruò the candle had almost burned right down 蜡烛几乎烧没了 
B.  transitive verb[burn something down, burn down something] 烧毁 shāohuǐ ‹structure, house›burn off 
A.  intransitive verb «substance» 烧尽 shāojìn 
B.  transitive verb [burn something off, burn off something] 烧掉 shāodiào ‹paint, vegetation›burn out 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (stop burning) «fire, candle» 熄灭 xīmiè 
② (stop working) «fuse, motor, light bulb» 烧坏 shāohuài 
B.  transitive verb 
① [burn something out, burn out something] (make unserviceable) 烧坏 shāohuài ‹clutch, engine, motor›
② [burn something out, burn out something] (destroy) 烧毁 shāohuǐ ‹car, building›
③ [burn somebody out, burn out somebody] (force out) «person» 放火驱出 fànghuǒ qūchū ; «fire» 烧毁…的家 shāohuǐ… de jiā we burnt the enemy troops out of their shelter 我们放火把敌军逼出了掩体 burnt out of house and home 因火灾而不得不离家的 
C.  reflexive verb to burn oneself out (become exhausted) 筋疲力尽 jīn pí lì jìn burn up 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (burn more strongly) «flame, fire» 烧得更旺 shāo de gèng wàng 
② (be destroyed) «rocket, satellite, meteorite» 烧毁 shāohuǐ 
B.  transitive verb 
① [burn up something, burn something up] (destroy) 烧掉 shāodiào 
② [burn up somebody, burn somebody up] AmE colloquial (make angry) «behaviour, attitude» 激怒 jīnù not getting the promotion burnt her up 她因未能升职而怒气冲冲 
burn
1 
bərn

▶verb (past and past participle burned or chiefly British burnt 
bərnt
)
1 [no object] (of a fire) flame or glow while consuming a material such as coal or wood: a fire burned and crackled cheerfully in the grate. 
• (of a candle or other source of light) be alight: a light was burning in the hall. 
• be or cause to be destroyed by fire: he watched his restaurant burn to the ground. 
• [with object] damage or injure by heat or fire: I burned myself on the stove.
2 [no object] (of a person, the skin, or a part of the body) become red and painful through exposure to the sun: my skin tans easily but sometimes burns. 
• feel or cause to feel sore, hot, or inflamed, typically as a result of illness or injury. 
• (be burning with) be possessed by (a desire or an emotion): Martha was burning with curiosity.
3 [with object] use (a type of fuel) as a source of heat or energy: a diesel engine converted to burn natural gas. 
• (of a person) convert (calories) to energy: the speed at which your body burns calories.
4 [with object] produce (a compact disc or DVD) by copying from an original or master copy.
5 [no object, with adverbial of direction] informal drive very fast: he burned past us like a maniac. 
▶noun
1 an injury caused by exposure to heat or flame: he was treated in the hospital for burns to his hands. 
• a mark left on something as a result of being burned: the carpet was covered with cigarette burns. 
• [with modifier] a feeling of heat and discomfort on the skin caused by friction, typically by a rope or razor: a smooth shave without razor burn.
2 consumption of a type of fuel as an energy source: natural gas produces the cleanest burn of the lot. 
• a firing of a rocket engine in flight.
3 North American & Australian/NZ an act of clearing vegetation by burning, intentionally or by accident. 
• an area of land cleared by burning.
4 a hot, painful sensation in the muscles experienced as a result of sustained vigorous exercise: work up a burn.
5 short for burn rate. 
PHRASES
be burned at the stake historical be executed by being burned alive in public, typically for heresy or witchcraft. burn one's bridges do something that makes it impossible to return to an earlier state.burn the candle at both ends go to bed late and get up early, especially to get work done. burn the midnight oil read, study, or work late into the night. burn (or lay) rubber informal drive very fast. go for the burn informal push one's body to the extremes when doing physical exercise. money burns a hole in someone's pocket someone has a strong urge to spend money as soon as they receive it. slow burn informal a state of slowly mounting anger or annoyance: the medical community's shrugging acceptance is fueling a slow burn among women.PHRASAL VERBS burn something down (or burn down) (of a building or structure) destroy or be destroyed completely by fire.burn something in/into brand or imprint by burning: designs are burned into the skin 
figurative : a childhood incident that was burned into her memory. 
• Photography expose one area of a print more than the rest: the sky and bottom of the picture needed substantial burning in. burn something off remove (a substance) using a flame: using a blowtorch to burn off the paint. burn out be completely consumed and thus no longer aflame: the candle in the saucer had burned out 
figurative : his political ambitions had burned themselves out. 
• cease to function as a result of excessive heat or friction: the clutch had burned out. burn (oneself) out ruin one's health or become completely exhausted through overwork. burn someone out make someone homeless by destroying their home by fire: they were burned out of their homes. burn something out completely destroy a building or vehicle by fire, so that only a shell remains. burn up
1 (of a fire) produce brighter and stronger flames.
2 (of an object entering the earth's atmosphere) be destroyed by heat. burn someone up North American informal make someone angry: his thoughtless remarks really burn me up. burn something up 
• use up the calories or energy provided by food, rather than converting these to fat: in the typical Western diet, all the energy in protein is burned up daily.ORIGIN Old English birnan ‘be on fire’ and bærnan ‘consume by fire,’ both from the same Germanic base; related to German brennen .
