bury 
BrE ˈbɛri, AmE ˈbɛri 
transitive verb 
① (after death) 埋葬 máizàng ‹person, animal›to bury [somebody] at sea 把某人海葬 to bury [somebody] alive 活埋某人 dead and buried 被埋葬了的 
② (cover) «rocks, snow» 掩埋 yǎnmái ‹person, place›
③ (hide in ground) «person, animal» 埋藏 máicáng ‹precious object, nuts›to bury one's head in the sand figurative (ignore realities) 逃避现实 (ignore problems) 回避问题 
④ figurative (forget) 抛开 pāokāi ‹differences, hatred›to bury the hatchet or AmE tomahawk 消除隔阂 
⑤ (conceal) 掩藏 yǎncáng ‹oneself, part of body›she buried her face in her hands 她双手掩面 
⑥ (hide away) 隐藏 yǐncáng a tiny hamlet buried deep in the country 隐没在乡野的小村子 
⑦ to bury oneself in [something] (involve deeply) 自己沉浸于某事物 zìjǐ chénjìn yú mǒu shìwù to be buried in a book 埋头读书 máitóu dúshū to be buried in thought 沉思 chénsī 
⑧ (sink) 把…插入 bǎ… chārù the leopard buried its teeth into my leg 豹子狠狠地咬了我的腿 she buried her hands in her pockets 她把手插在兜里 
bury 
ˈberē

▶verb (buries, burying, buried)
1 [with object] put or hide under ground: he buried the box in the back garden 
(as adjective buried) : buried treasure. 
• (usually be buried) place (a dead body) in the earth, in a tomb, or in the sea, typically with funeral rites: he was buried in Arlington National Cemetery. 
• lose (someone, typically a relative) through death: she buried her sixty-year-old husband.
2 completely cover; cause to disappear or become inconspicuous: the countryside has been buried under layers of concrete 
figurative : the warehouse was buried in the faceless sprawl of the city. 
• move or put out of sight: she buried her face in her hands 
with his hands buried in the pockets of his overcoat. 
• deliberately forget; conceal from oneself: they had buried their feelings of embarrassment and fear. 
• overwhelm (an opponent) beyond hope of recovery: losses that would bury multiple businesses. 
• (bury oneself) involve oneself deeply in something to the exclusion of other concerns: he buried himself in work. 
PHRASES
bury one's head in the sand ignore unpleasant realities.ORIGIN Old English byrgan; related to the verb borrow and to borough .
