business 
BrE ˈbɪznəs, AmE ˈbɪznəs 
noun 
① Uncountable(commerce, trade) 商业 shāngyè to go into business (for oneself), to set up in business (for oneself); （独立）开业 to set up in business as [somebody]; 开业担当某角色 (to go) out of business; 停止经商 to put [somebody]/[something] out of business; 使某人/某企业停业 to do business with [somebody]; 与某人做生意 to be in business; literal 经商 figurative colloquial 开始工作 kāishǐ gōngzuò all we need is a car, and we'll be in business 我们只需要有一辆车就可以动手了 she's away on business 她出差了 to mix business with pleasure 工作与玩乐兼顾 business is business 公事公办 one's line of business 行业 to be good/bad business 生意好/不好 
② Uncountable(trade) 营业额 yíngyè'é to drum up business 努力提高营业额 business is usually brisk in the summer 夏季通常是营业旺季 
③ Uncountable(custom) 惠顾 huìgù I'm taking my business elsewhere 我要去别处买东西了 
④ Countable(company) 公司 gōngsī to launch a business 开办公司 to manage/operate/run a business 管理/运作/经营一家公司 
⑤ Uncountable(responsibility) 职责 zhízé to make it one's business to do [something] 负责办某事 to go about one's business 履行职责 to send [somebody] about his/her business dated 打发某人走 
⑥ Uncountable(important matters) 事务 shìwù what's your business with Jim? 你找吉姆有什么事？ 
⑦ Uncountable(concern) 所关心的事 suǒ guānxīn de shì that's none of your business! 这不干你的事！ you've no business doing that! 你无权那样做！ mind your own business! 少管闲事！ 
⑧ Countablecolloquial (nuisance) 难事 nánshì it was quite a business 那真是件麻烦事 to make a (great) business of [something]; 重视某事物 there's some funny business going on! 事情有点不对劲！ 
⑨ Uncountableeuphemistic (defecation) 大便 dàbiàn to do one's business 解大手 
business 
ˈbiznəs

▶noun
1 a person's regular occupation, profession, or trade: she had to do a lot of smiling in her business 
are you here on business? 
• an activity that someone is engaged in: what is your business here? 
• a person's concern: it's not my business to interfere 
the neighbors make it their business to know all about you. 
• work that has to be done or matters that have to be attended to: government business 
let's get down to business.
2 the practice of making one's living by engaging in commerce: the world of business 
whom do you do business with in Manila? 
the jewelry business 
[as modifier] : the business community. 
• trade considered in terms of its volume or profitability: how's business? 
• a commercial operation or company: a catering business.
3 [in singular] informal an affair or series of events, typically a scandalous or discreditable one: they must be told about this blackmailing business. 
• informal a group of related or previously mentioned things: use carrots, cauliflower, and broccoli, and serve the whole business hot.
4 theatrical slang actions other than dialogue performed by actors: a piece of business.
5 informal a scolding; harsh verbal criticism: the supervisor really gave him the business. 
PHRASES
business as usual an unchanging state of affairs despite difficulties or disturbances: apart from being under new management, it's business as usual in the department. have no business have no right to do something or be somewhere: he had no business tampering with social services. in business operating, especially in commerce: they will have to import from overseas to remain in business. 
• informal able to begin operations: if you'll contact the right people, I think we'll be in business. in the business of engaged in or prepared to engage in: I am not in the business of making accusations. like nobody's business informal to an extraordinarily high degree or standard: these weeds spread like nobody's business. mean business be in earnest. mind one's own business refrain from meddling in other people's affairs: he was yelling at her to get out and mind her own business. be none of one's business not be of direct relevance or concern to one: their finances are none of your business 
what goes on between Gabriel and me is none of your business. send someone about his/her business dated tell someone to go away.ORIGIN Old English bisignis (see busy, -ness). The sense in Old English was ‘anxiety’; the sense ‘the state of being busy’ was used from Middle English down to the 18th century, but is now differentiated as busyness. The sense ‘an appointed task’ dates from late Middle English, and from it all the other current senses have developed.
