busy 
BrE ˈbɪzi, AmE ˈbɪzi 
A. adjective 
① (occupied) 无暇的 wúxiá de (full of activity) 热闹的 rènao de ‹street, shops›; 忙碌的 mánglù de ‹time, life›to be busy doing [something]; 忙着做某事 to keep [somebody]/[something] busy; 使某人/某物忙个不停 to be busy with [somebody]/[something]; 忙着应对某人/某事物 to get busy; 开始工作 to be too busy to do [something]; 忙得没时间做某事 to be at one's busiest 忙得不可开交 to look busy (appear busy) 显得很忙 (hurry up) 抓紧做 to be as busy as a bee 忙得不可开交 the town's always busy on a Saturday 周六小镇上总是熙熙攘攘 
② pejorative (too elaborate) 花色繁复的 huāsè fánfù de ‹painting, carpet›
③ AmE (occupied, engaged) 被占用的 bèi zhànyòng de ‹room, photocopier›the line's busy 电话占线 
B.  reflexive verb to busy oneself (with [something]/doing [something]) 忙于（某事物/做某事） mángyú(mǒu shìwù/zuò mǒu shì) I busied myself addressing envelopes 我忙着往信封上写地址 
busy 
▶adjective
1 the campaign volunteers have been busy: occupied, engaged, involved, employed, working, hard at work; rushed off one's feet, hard-pressed, swamped, up to one's neck; on the job, absorbed, engrossed, immersed, preoccupied; informal (as) busy as a bee, on the go, hard at it. ANTONYMS idle.
2 sorry, she's busy at the moment: unavailable, engaged, occupied; working, in a meeting, on duty; informal tied up. ANTONYMS free.
3 the busy streets of Toronto: hectic, active, lively; crowded, bustling, abuzz, swarming, teeming, full, well attended, thronged.
4 a busy design: ornate, overelaborate, overblown, overwrought, overdone, fussy, cluttered, overworked. ANTONYMS restrained, quiet.
▶verb he busied himself with paperwork: occupy, involve, engage, concern, absorb, engross, immerse, preoccupy; distract, divert.CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD busy, assiduous, diligent, engaged, industrious, sedulous There are varying degrees of busyness. Busy implies actively and attentively involved in work or a pastime (too busy to come to the phone). It can also be used to describe intensive activity of any kind (a busy intersection; a busy day). Someone who is engaged is also busy, but in a more focused way (engaged in compiling a dictionary). Diligent is used to describe earnest and constant effort, and it often connotes enjoyment of or dedication to what one is doing (diligent efforts to rescue injured animals). To be industrious is to be more focused still, often with a definite goal in mind (an industrious employee working for a promotion). Sedulous also applies to goal-oriented activity, but it suggests more close care and perseverance than industrious does (a sedulous investigation of the accident). The award for concentrated effort goes to the person who is assiduous, which suggests painstaking preoccupation with a specific task (the assiduous student is the one most likely to produce exemplary work).These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
