but 
BrE bʌt, bət, AmE bət 

A.  conjunction 
① (expressing contrast, contradiction) 而 ér [表示相反]it's not an asset but a disadvantage 这不是优点而是劣势 I'll do it, but not yet 我会做的，但不是现在 I agree, but I may be wrong 我同意，但是也许我错了 
② (and yet) 然而 rán'ér he's about your height but fatter 他身高和你差不多，但更胖些 cheap but nourishing 便宜但却富有营养 
③ (expressing reluctance, protest, surprise) 但是 dànshì but that's ridiculous/wonderful! 但那很荒谬/很精彩！ but we can't afford it! 可我们负担不起啊！ 
④ (except) 除非 chúfēi I had no choice but to sign the contract 我别无选择，只好签了合同 
⑤ (without it being the case that) [强调一贯真实]never a day goes by but she telephones 她没有一天不打电话 there's no doubt but he'll come 他一定会来的 
⑥ (in apologies) 不过 bùguò I'm sorry but I can't stay any longer 抱歉我不能再呆下去了 I may be old-fashioned, but … 我也许保守，不过… 
⑦ (for emphasis) [表示强调]nothing, but nothing would make him change his mind 没有什么，绝对没有什么能使他改变主意 
⑧ (adding to the discussion) [用于引出新话题]but to continue … 而接下来… but first, let's consider the advantages 但首先，我们来考虑一下有利条件 
B.  adverb 仅仅 jǐnjǐn these are but two of the possibilities 这只是其中的两种可能 he's but a child 他只是个孩子 to name but a few 仅列举几个 
C.  preposition 除…以外 chú… yǐwài everybody but Paul will be there 除了保罗，大家都会到场 there's nothing for it but to leave 除了离开别无办法 it's nothing but an insult 这绝对是侮辱 the last day but one 倒数第二天 the next road but two 第三条马路 
D.  but for preposition phrase 
① (if not for) 如果没有 rúguǒ méiyǒu we would have married but for the war 如果没有这场战争，我们都已结婚了 I'd have won but for him 要不是他，我就赢了 
② (except for) 除…以外 chú… yǐwài the square was empty but for a couple of cabs 除了几辆出租车，广场上空空如也 
E.  but then (again) conjunction phrase 
① (on the other hand) 然而 rán'ér he might agree, but then again he might have a completely different opinion 他可能同意，但他也可能持完全相反的意见 
② (giving explanation) 那是因为 nà shì yīnwèi she speaks very good Italian, but then she did live in Rome for a year 她的意大利语讲得很流利，不过她毕竟在罗马生活过一年 
F.  noun 借口 jièkǒu no buts: just get out of here 别找借口，马上滚出去 
but
1 
bət

▶conjunction
1 used to introduce something contrasting with what has already been mentioned. 
• nevertheless; however: he stumbled but didn't fall 
this is one principle, but it is not the only one. 
• on the contrary; in contrast: I am clean but you are dirty 
the problem is not that they are cutting down trees, but that they are doing it in a predatory way.
2 [with negative or in questions] used to indicate the impossibility of anything other than what is being stated: one cannot but sympathize 
there was nothing they could do but swallow their pride 
they had no alternative but to follow.
3 used to introduce a response expressing a feeling such as surprise or anger: but that's an incredible saving! 
but why?
4 used after an expression of apology for what one is about to say: I'm sorry, but I can't pay you.
5 [with negative] archaic without its being the case that: it never rains but it pours. 
▶preposition except; apart from; other than: in Texas, we were never anything but poor 
I trusted no one but him 
the last but one. 
• used with repetition of certain words to give emphasis: nobody, but nobody, was going to stop her. 
▶adverb no more than; only: he is but a shadow of his former self 
choose from a colorful array of oranges, cherries, and raspberries, to name but a few. 
▶noun an argument against something; an objection: no buts—just get out of here 
as with all these proposals, ifs and buts abound. 
PHRASES
all but see all. anything but see anything. but for except for: I walked along Broadway, deserted but for the occasional cab. 
• if it were not for: the game could be over but for you. but that archaic other than that; except that: who knows but that the pictures painted on air are eternal. but then after all; on the other hand (introducing a contrasting comment): it couldn't help, but then again, it probably couldn't hurt 
it's a very hard exam, but then they all are.ORIGIN Old English be-ūtan, būtan, būta ‘outside, without, except’ (see by, out) . usage: For advice about using but and other conjunctions to begin a sentence, see usage at and .
