button 
BrE ˈbʌt(ə)n, AmE ˈbətn 

A.  noun 
① (on garment) 纽扣 niǔkòu to do up/to undo a button 系上/解开扣子 to be not worth a button colloquial 不值钱 
② (switch, knob) 按钮 ànniǔ (right) on the button colloquial (exactly right) 准确 (punctual) 准时 
③ AmE (badge) 圆形小徽章 yuánxíng xiǎo huīzhāng party button 党徽 
④ (button-shaped thing) 纽扣状物 niǔkòuzhuàngwù a chocolate button 小块巧克力 
B.  transitive verb to button (up) [something], to button [something] (up); 系上某物的纽扣 jìshang mǒu wù de niǔkòu you've buttoned your jacket (up) wrong 你把夹克衫的扣子扣错了 to button one's lip colloquial (stop talking) 住口 zhùkǒu (refrain from talking) 不吭声 bù kēngshēng 
C.  intransitive verb 扣上纽扣 kòushang niǔkòu this blouse buttons (up) at the back 这衬衫是从后背系扣的 
button 
ˈbətn

▶noun
1 a small disk or knob sewn onto a garment, either to fasten it by being pushed through a slit made for the purpose, or for decoration: a blouse with five buttons in front 
[as modifier] : button thread. 
• a small, round object resembling a button: chocolate buttons. 
• Fencing a knob fitted to the point of a foil to make it harmless.
2 a knob on a piece of electrical or electronic equipment that is pressed to operate it. 
• an element of a graphical user interface which a user can select to perform a particular action: just search for the app you want and click the 'buy' or 'install' button.
3 chiefly North American a badge bearing a design or slogan and pinned to the clothing. 
▶verb [with object] fasten (clothing) with buttons: he buttoned up his jacket. 
• (button someone into) fasten the buttons of a garment being worn by (someone): he buttoned himself into the raincoat. 
• [no object] (of a garment) be fastened with buttons: a dress that buttons down the front. 
• (button it) [often in imperative] informal stop talking. 
PHRASES
button one's lip informal stop or refrain from talking. on the button informal punctually: it was nearly visiting hours and she would arrive on the button. 
• exactly right: his prediction was right on the button in terms of actual rainfall. press the button informal initiate an action or train of events, especially nuclear war. push (or press) someone's buttons informal arouse or provoke a reaction in someone: stay cool and don't allow them to push your buttons.PHRASAL VERBS button something up
1 informal complete or conclude something satisfactorily: trying to button up a deal.
2 repress or contain something: it was repressive enough to keep public opinion buttoned up.DERIVATIVES buttonless 
ˈbətnləs 
adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: from Old French bouton, of Germanic origin and related to butt1 .
