by 
BrE bʌɪ, AmE baɪ 

A.  preposition 
① (indicating agent of passive verb, after noun denoting action) 被 bèi a building destroyed by fire 烧毁的大楼 I was startled by her reaction 她的反应令我大吃一惊 some remarks by Mrs White 怀特夫人说的一些话 
② (identifying author) 由…创作 yóu… chuàngzuò a novel by Virginia Woolf 弗吉尼娅伍尔夫写的一部小说 who's it by? 这是谁创作的？ 
③ (indicating means) 用 yòng you can reach me by phone 你可以打电话找我 to pay by cheque 用支票付账 to travel by bus/train 乘坐公共汽车/火车旅行 to make [something] by hand/machine 手工/用机器制造某物 to begin by saying that … 开头说道… 
④ (via, passing through) 经由 jīngyóu we entered by the back door 我们从后门进入 we'll get there quicker if we go by Birmingham 如果从伯明翰走的话，我们会更快到达那里 by the left/right, quick march! Military 从左翼/右翼，齐步走！ 
⑤ (near, beside) 在…旁边 zài… pángbiān by the bed/the window 在床边/窗边 come and sit by me 过来坐在我边上 
⑥ (past) 经过 jīngguò she walked by me 她从我身边走过 a car sped by our house 一辆汽车从我们家前面飞驰而过 
⑦ (before, not later than) 在…之前 zài… zhīqián it must be done by next Thursday 这件事必须在下周四前完成 they should have been here by now 他们现在本应该到这儿了 but by then it was too late 然而那时已经太晚了 by the time she had got downstairs, he was gone 等她到了楼下的时候，他已经走了 
⑧ (during) 在…期间 zài… qījiān to travel by day 白天旅行 by day as well as by night 日以继夜 
⑨ (to the extent or degree of) 达 dá prices have risen by 20% 价格上升了20％ he's taller than me by two centimetres 他比我高两厘米 
⑩ (in measurements) a room
20 metres by
10 metres 20米长10米宽的房子 
⑪ (in multiplication, division) 以 yǐ
10 multiplied by
5 is 50 10乘以5等于50 
⑫ (showing rate, quantity) 按 àn to pay by the hour 按小时付酬 to sell [something] by the dozen/the kilo 按打/按公斤出售某物 
⑬ (in successive degrees, units) 接着 jiēzhe day by day 日复一日地 one by one 一个接着一个地 it was getting worse by the minute 情况时时刻刻都在恶化 
⑭ (indicating parentage) 由…所生 yóu… suǒ shēng he has two children by his first wife 他和第一任妻子有两个孩子 
⑮ (indicating circumstances) 由于 yóuyú by accident/mistake 偶然地/无意地 by candlelight/moonlight 借着烛光/月光 
⑯ (according to, from evidence of) 根据 gēnjù by the rules/by law 依据规则/法律 what time is it by your watch? 你的表现在几点了？ it's all right by me 我觉得可以 I knew her by her laugh 听到笑声我就知道是她 
⑰ (with respect to) 关于 guānyú she had done her duty by him 她对他已经尽到责任了 by birth/nature 生来/天生地 
⑱ Nautical (in compass directions) 偏 piān north by north west 西北偏北 
⑲ (in promises, oaths) 以…的名义 yǐ… de míngyì I swear by Almighty God 我以全能上帝之名发誓 
B.  adverb 
① (past) 经过 jīngguò the car roared by 汽车呼啸而过 she walked on by without stopping 她走过去，没有停留 
② (near) 在附近 zài fùjìn he lives close by 他就住在附近 
③ (in reserve) 保留着 bǎoliúzhe I have some money by 我存了些钱 
④ (at sb.'s home) 短暂来访 duǎnzàn láifǎng did you have anyone by tonight? 今晚有人来过你家吗？ 
C.  by and by adverb phrase dated (before long) 不久 bùjiǔ ; (eventually) 终于 zhōngyú by and by she met an old man with a beard 不久她见到了一位留胡子的老人 
D.  by and large adverb phrase 大体上 dàtǐ shang by and large, I enjoyed my time at school 总体而言，我上学时很愉快 
E.  (all) by oneself adverb phrase 独自地 dúzì de she was sitting by herself 她一个人坐着 he did it all by himself 他全凭自己完成了这事 
F.  by the by or bye adverb phrase 
① (incidentally) 顺便 shùnbiàn where's John, by the by? 顺便问一下，约翰在哪儿？ 
② (without importance) 无关紧要 wú guān jǐnyào but that's by the by 但那无关紧要 
by 
bī

▶preposition
1 identifying the agent performing an action. 
• after a passive verb: the door was opened by my cousin Annie 
damage caused by fire. 
• after a noun denoting an action: further attacks by the mob 
a clear decision by the electorate. 
• identifying the author of a text, idea, or work of art: a book by Ernest Hemingway.
2 [often with verbal noun] indicating the means of achieving something: malaria can be controlled by attacking the parasite 
they plan to provide further working capital by means of borrowing. 
• indicating a term to which an interpretation is to be assigned: what is meant by “fair?” 
• indicating a name according to which a person is known: she mostly calls me by my last name. 
• indicating the means of transport selected for a journey: traveling by train to Boston. 
• indicating the other parent of someone's child or children: Richard is his son by his third wife. 
• indicating the sire of a pedigree animal, especially a horse: a black filly by Goldfuerst. 
• (followed by a noun without an adjective) in various phrases indicating how something happens: I heard by chance that she has married again 
Anderson, by contrast, rejects this view 
she ate by candlelight.
3 indicating the amount or size of a margin: the shot missed her by miles 
the raising of taxes by 2.5%. 
• indicating a unit of measurement: billing is by the minute. 
• in phrases indicating something happening repeatedly or progressively, typically with repetition of a unit of time: colors changing minute by minute 
the risk becomes worse by the day. 
• identifying a parameter: a breakdown of employment figures by age and occupation. 
• expressing multiplication, often in dimensions: a map measuring 24 by 36 inches 
she multiplied it by 89.
4 indicating a deadline or the end of a particular time period: I've got to do this report by Monday 
by now Kelly needed extensive physiotherapy.
5 indicating location of a physical object beside a place or object: remains were discovered by the roadside 
the lamp was by the door. 
• past; beyond: I drove by our house.
6 indicating the period in which something happens: this animal always hunts by night.
7 concerning; according to: anything you do is all right by me 
she had done her duty by him.
8 used in mild oaths: it was the least he could do, by God. [partly translating French par ‘through the medium or agency of.’] 
▶adverb so as to go past: a car flashed by on the other side of the road 
he let only a moment go by. 
▶noun (plural byes) variant spelling of bye1. 
PHRASES
by and by before long; eventually. by the by (or bye) incidentally; parenthetically: where's Hector, by the by?by and large on the whole; everything considered: mammals have, by and large, bigger brains than reptiles. [originally in nautical use, describing the handling of a ship both with the wind and against it.] by oneself
1 alone: living in that big house by himself.
2 unaided: the patient often learns to undress by himself. by way of see way. ORIGIN Old English bī, bi, be, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch bij and German bei .
