call 
BrE kɔːl, AmE kɔl 

A.  transitive verb 
① (give name to) 给…取名 gěi… qǔmíng (address or refer to by name) 称呼 chēnghu a boy called David 一个名叫戴维的男孩 her name is Elizabeth, but everybody calls her Liz 她的名字是伊丽莎白，但大家都叫她莉兹 the pupils call the teachers by their first names 学生对老师直呼其名 
② (describe as) 认为…是 rènwéi… shì how dare you call me fat/a cheat! 你竟敢说我胖/是骗子！ it's not what you'd call an exciting book, but it's very readable 这算不上一本激动人心的书， 但可读性很强 he hasn't a place to call his own 他无处安身 parapsychology or whatever they or you call it 超心理学或者什么来着 call it what you will 随便叫什么都一样 
③ colloquial (agree on) 把…算作 bǎ… suànzuò that'll be £25.04: let's call it £25 共计25.04英镑，就算作25英镑吧 
④ (say loudly) 大声说出 dàshēng shuōchū didn't you hear me call your name? 你没听到我叫你的名字吗？ to call the register or roll 点名 ‘come here at once!’she called 她喊道：“马上过来！” has our flight been called yet? 广播通知我们的航班登机了吗？ I called heads, but it was tails 我猜的是硬币正面，但结果是反面 
⑤ (summon by shouting) 呼唤 hūhuàn please call the manager 请叫经理来 call the next witness 传下一个证人 
⑥ (telephone) 给…打电话 gěi… dǎ diànhuà ‹person, number, organization›don't call us, we'll call you humorous 别给我们打电话，我们会打给你的 ［常暗示说话者不接受对方］
⑦ (summon by telephone) 打电话叫 dǎ diànhuà jiào ‹doctor, fire brigade, ambulance›to call the police 打电话报警 I've called you a taxi 我已经为你打电话叫了辆出租车 
⑧ (waken) 叫醒 jiàoxǐng 
⑨ (summon by letter) 写信请…前来 xiě xìn qǐng… qiánlái ‹person›she has been called for a second interview 她接到通知去参加第二次面试 I've been called as a witness 我被传唤作证 
⑩ (to vocation) «God, destiny» 感召 gǎnzhào something was calling me to join the army 冥冥中有什么在召唤我参军 
⑪ (arrange) 召开 zhàokāi ‹meeting›; 举行 jǔxíng ‹election, rehearsal, strike›
⑫ Games (nominate) 指定 zhǐdìng ‹trumps›; 指定…为王牌 zhǐdìng… wéi wángpái ‹hearts, clubs, diamonds, spades›(ask to show hand) 叫…摊牌 jiào… tānpái (make bid) 叫（牌） jiào(pái) I called two diamonds 我叫了两个方块 
⑬ Sport 判定 pàndìng the linesman called the ball out 司线员判该球出界 
⑭ Computing 调用 diàoyòng ‹file, program, subroutine›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (cry out) 喊叫 hǎnjiào I called to my friends and asked them to help 我朝朋友们呼喊，要他们来帮忙 
② Zoology «bird» 鸣叫 míngjiào ; «animal» 叫 jiào 
③ (telephone) 打电话 dǎ diànhuà can I speak to Mr Smith, please — who's calling? 我能和史密斯先生通话吗？──您是哪位？ 
④ Radio 呼叫 hūjiào (this is) London calling （这是）伦敦呼叫 
⑤ (visit) 拜访 bàifǎng Martin called while you were out 你不在家时马丁来过 he called at the library to return his books 他去图书馆还了书 
⑥ Games (nominate trumps) 指定王牌 zhǐdìng wángpái (make bid) 叫牌 jiàopái 
⑦ Sport (when tossing a coin, racket) 猜正反面 cāi zhèngfǎnmiàn 
C.  reflexive verb to call oneself [something]; (give name to) 给自己取某名字 gěi zìjǐ qǔ mǒu míngzi (claim to be) 自称某身份 zìchēng mǒu shēnfèn she calls herself Madame Mimi Theatre 她给自己取名米米夫人 he calls himself a writer, but he's never had anything published 他自称作家，但从未发表过任何作品 I was ashamed to call myself his daughter 我羞于说自己是他的女儿 
D.  noun 
① Countable(loud cry) 喊叫 hǎnjiào (of bird, animal) 叫声 jiàoshēng a call for help 呼救声 within call 在附近 they told us to remain within call 他们叫我们不要走远 
② CountableTelecommunications 电话 diànhuà to have or get or receive a call (from [somebody]/[something]) 接到（某人/某处的）电话 to make a call (to [somebody]/[something]) （给某人/某处）打电话 to put a call through to [somebody] 接通给某人的电话 to return [somebody's] call 给某人回电话 there's a call for you 有你的电话 
③ Countable(to wake sb.) 叫醒 jiàoxǐng to give [somebody] a call 叫醒某人 
④ Countable(summons by voice) 召唤 zhàohuàn the last call Aviation 最后一次登机提示 this is your ten-minute call Theatre 十分钟后该你上场了 to put out a call for [somebody] (over public address or radio) 广播呼叫某人 
⑤ Countable(signal from trumpet, bugle) 号声 hàoshēng 
⑥ Uncountable(duty) to be on call «doctor, engineer, police officer» 随叫随到 suí jiào suí dào Dr Brown is on call tonight 布朗医生今晚值班 
⑦ Countable(vocation) 感召 gǎnzhào he felt the call of the priesthood 他感到神意要他成为神父 a call to do [something]; 做某事的使命感 
⑧ Countable(allure) 吸引力 xīyǐnlì the call of the sea 大海的魅力 
⑨ Countable(visit) 短暂的拜访 duǎnzàn de bàifǎng the doctor is out on a call 医生在外出诊 my next call was at the butcher's 我接下来去了肉店 to make a call 拜访 bàifǎng to pay a call (on [somebody]) dated 拜访（某人） 
⑩ Countable(request) 要求 yāoqiú the president made a call for national unity 总统号召全国上下团结一致 
⑪ Countable(claim) 需求 xūqiú a call on [something]; 对某事物的需求 she has many calls on her time 有很多事情等着她去办 to have first call on [somebody]/[something] 享有对某人/某事物的优先权 the children always have first call on her time 她的时间总是先花在孩子们身上 
⑫ Uncountable(demand) 需要 xūyào (need) 必要 bìyào there's little call for black-and-white televisions these days 如今对黑白电视机几乎没有需求了 there was no call for him to react that way 他没必要有那样的反应 
⑬ Countable(bid in card games) 叫牌 jiàopái it's your call 该你叫牌了 
⑭ CountableSport (when tossing a coin, racket) 猜正反面的权利 cāi zhèngfǎnmiàn de quánlì it's your call 由你来猜正反面 
⑮ CountableSport (shout by official) [裁判的] 判决 pànjué 
⑯ Countablecolloquial (decision) 决定 juédìng it's your call 由你来决定 
⑰ Uncountable and countableFinance 催还 cuīhuán on or at call 即期支付的 PHRASAL VERBS call at transitive verb [call at something] especially BrE «vehicle» 在…停留 zài… tíngliú the trains calling at Oxford 在牛津停留的列车 the ship calls at a number of ports 这艘船在很多港口停靠 call away transitive verb [call somebody away] 把…叫走 bǎ… jiàozǒu the doctor had been called away to an urgent case 医生被叫去看急诊了 call back 
A.  [call somebody back] transitive verb 
① (summon by shouting) 叫…回来 jiào… huílai 
② (telephone again) 再给…打电话 zài gěi… dǎ diànhuà 
③ (telephone in return) 给…回电话 gěi… huí diànhuà 
B.  [call somebody back, call back somebody] transitive verb 召回 zhàohuí ‹representative, diplomat, minister›
C.  intransitive verb 
① (telephone again) 再打电话 zài dǎ diànhuà 
② (telephone in return) 回电话 huí diànhuà 
③ (visit again) 再次拜访 zàicì bàifǎng sorry, they haven't come in yet: call back next week 抱歉，还没到货，下周再来吧 call by intransitive verb 顺便拜访 shùnbiàn bàifǎng I'll call by some time and pick them up 我会找个时候顺便去一趟把它们取走 call down 
A.  transitive verb 
① [call somebody down] (summon from above) 叫…下来 jiào… xiàlai 
② [call down something, call something down] literary (invoke) 激起 jīqǐ ‹anger›; 祈求 qíqiú ‹wrath, vengeance›he called down curses on his enemies 他诅咒敌人 
B.  intransitive verb (shout from above) 朝下面喊叫 cháo xiàmian hǎnjiào call for 
A.  [call for somebody/something] transitive verb 
① (summon by shouting) 叫…来 jiào… lái ‹person›; 叫人拿来 jiào rén nálai ‹object›the queen called for her advisers 女王宣召了顾问大臣 to call for help/assistance 大声呼救/喊人帮忙 
② (go/come to collect) 去接/来接 qù jiē/lái jiē ‹person›; 去取/来取 qù qǔ/lái qǔ ‹object›
B.  [call for something] transitive verb 
① (demand) 要求 yāoqiú they are calling for talks to be extended 他们要求延长会谈 
② (require) 需要 xūyào this calls for a celebration! 这该庆祝一下！ that was not called for! 多此一举！ call forth transitive verb [call forth something, call something forth] literary «situation, action, speech» 引起 yǐnqǐ ‹response, emotion›call in 
A.  transitive verb 
① [call somebody/something in, call in somebody/something] (summon inside) 叫…进来 jiào… jìnlai 
② [call in somebody, call somebody in] (send for) 召来 zhàolái to call in a doctor/the police 叫医生/警察来 
③ [call in something, call something in] (recall) «government, bank, library, company» 要求收回 yāoqiú shōuhuí ‹currency, library book, product›the manufacturers have called in all cars of this model 生产商已经把这一型号的车全部召回了 
④ Finance 要求还清 yāoqiú huánqīng ‹loan›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (pay visit) 拜访 bàifǎng to call in at the baker's 去面包店 he called in on his friend on the way home 他在回家路上顺便去看望了朋友 
② (telephone) 打电话来 dǎ diànhuà lai to call in sick «employee» 打电话请病假 call off 
A.  [call something off, call off something] transitive verb 
① (cancel) 取消 qǔxiāo ‹event›
② (halt) 停止 tíngzhǐ ‹search, investigation, strike›; 解除 jiěchú ‹engagement, arrangement, deal›
B.  [call somebody/something off, call off somebody/something] transitive verb (order to stop attacking) 命令…停止攻击 mìnglìng… tíngzhǐ gōngjī call your men off 叫你的人住手 call the dog off 把狗叫开 call on 
A.  [call on somebody] transitive verb (visit) 拜访 bàifǎng I called on her yesterday 我昨天去看望了她 
B.  [call on somebody/something] transitive verb = call upon call out 
A.  [call something out, call out something] transitive verb (say loudly) 大声说出 dàshēng shuōchū ‘what do you want?’I called out “你想要什么？”我喊道 
B.  [call somebody out, call out somebody] transitive verb 
① (summon outside, away) 把…叫出来 bǎ… jiào chulai 
② (send for) 召来 zhàolái ‹specialist, emergency services, troops›if the storm continues, we'll have to call out the lifeboat 如果暴风雨不停，我们就必须呼叫救生船 
③ (on strike) 下令…罢工 xiàlìng… bàgōng the shop steward called the union members out on strike 工会谈判代表下令工会会员罢工 
C.  intransitive verb 大声呼喊 dàshēng hūhǎn to call out to [somebody]; 对某人大喊 to call out for [somebody]/[something]; 喊着要某人/某事物 call over transitive verb 
① [call somebody over, call over somebody] (summon by shouting) 叫…过来 jiào… guòlai 
② [call somebody over] (invite) 请来 qǐnglai call round intransitive verb BrE 来访 láifǎng do call round when you have the time 你有时间一定要来看我 I'll call round this afternoon and pick it up 我今天下午去一趟，把它取走 call up 
A.  [call up somebody/something, call somebody/something up] transitive verb 
① (telephone) 给…打电话 gěi… dǎ diànhuà ‹person, organization, number›
② (supernaturally) 用魔法召唤 yòng mófǎ zhàohuàn ‹spirit›the medium called up the ghost of my grandmother 灵媒让我的祖母显灵了 
③ Military (conscript) 征召…入伍 zhēngzhào… rùwǔ 
④ Military (summon) 召集 zhàojí ‹reinforcements, troops›
⑤ Sport 选拔 xuǎnbá ‹player, reserve›
⑥ (evoke) 使人想起 shǐ rén xiǎngqǐ the church called up memories of our wedding day 教堂勾起了我们婚礼那天的回忆 
⑦ Computing 打开 dǎkāi ‹program, data›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (telephone) 打电话 dǎ diànhuà 
② (shout from below) 朝上面喊叫 cháo shàngmian hǎnjiào call upon 
A.  [call upon somebody] transitive verb 
① (invite) 邀请 yāoqǐng I'd now like to call upon our next speaker 现在有请下一位发言人 to call upon [somebody] to do [something]; 请某人做某事 
② (urge) 要求 yāoqiú to call upon [somebody] to do [something]; 要求某人做某事 I feel called upon to warn you that … 我觉得我应该警告你… they delivered a petition calling upon the government to ban vivisection 他们递交了一份请愿书，呼吁政府禁止活体解剖 
③ (appeal to) 求助于 qiúzhù yú to call upon [somebody] for [something]; 恳求某人给予 ‹help, support›
B.  [call upon something] transitive verb (make use of) 利用 lìyòng we may need to call upon your services 我们可能有用到你的地方 you will have to call upon all your patience and courage 你得拿出全部耐心和勇气 
call 
kôl

▶verb
1 [with object and complement] give (an infant or animal) a specified name: they called their daughter Hannah. 
• (be called) have a specified name: she is called Eva 
a 1942 mystery called Time To Kill. 
• address or refer to (someone) by a specified name, title, endearment, or term of abuse: please call me Lucy 
if he remains quiet she calls him a wimp. 
• refer to, consider, or describe (someone or something) as being: he's the only person I would call a friend.
2 [with object] cry out (a word or words): he heard an insistent voice calling his name 
Meredith was already calling out a greeting. 
• cry out to (someone) in order to summon them or attract their attention: she heard Terry calling her 
[no object] : I distinctly heard you call. 
• [no object] (of an animal, especially a bird) make its characteristic cry: overhead, a skylark called. 
• shout out or chant (the steps and figures) to people performing a square dance or country dance. 
• Bridge make (a particular bid) during the auction: her partner called 6♠. 
• North American informal claim (a privilege) for oneself, typically by shouting out a particular word or set phrase: I call first dibs on the bathroom.
3 [with object] contact or attempt to contact (a person or number) by phone: could I call you back? 
at the first sign of heart-attack symptoms call 911 immediately. 
• summon (something, especially an emergency service or a taxi) by telephone: her husband called an ambulance.
4 [with object] order or request the attendance of: representatives of all three teams have been called to appear before the stewards 
I got a letter calling me for an interview. 
• bring (a witness) into court to give evidence: four expert witnesses were called. 
• cause (someone) to have a strong urge to choose a particular career or way of life: he was called to the priesthood 
I think teachers, really good teachers, are called to teach.
5 [with object] announce or decide that (an event, especially a meeting, strike, or election) is to happen: there appeared to be no alternative but to call a general election 
she intends to call a meeting of the committee early next week 
the Allied forces called a ceasefire.
6 [no object] chiefly British (of a person) pay a brief visit: he called around last night looking for you 
he had promised Celia he would call in at the clinic.
7 [with object and complement] (of an umpire or other official in a game) pronounce (a ball, stroke, or other action) to be the thing specified: the linesman called the ball wide. 
• [with object] predict the result of (a future event, especially an election or a vote): in the Northeast, the race remains too close to call 
few pundits risked calling the election for either Bush or Kerry. 
• [with object] guess (the outcome) of tossing a coin: Burnley called heads and won the toss 
[no object] : “You call,” he said. “Heads or tails?”
8 [with object] Computing cause (a subroutine) to be executed: one subroutine may call another subroutine (or itself). 
▶noun
1 a cry made as a summons or to attract someone's attention: a nearby fisherman heard their calls for help 
in response to the call, a figure appeared. 
• [with modifier] a series of notes sounded on a brass instrument as a signal to do something: a bugle call to rise at 5:30. 
• a direction in a square dance given by the caller. 
• Bridge a bid, response, or double: the alternative call of 2♠ would be quite unsound.
2 the characteristic cry of a bird or other animal: it is best distinguished by its call, a loud “pwit” 
• a device used to imitate the cry of a particular bird or other animal: turkeys in the wild don't sound like most turkey calls 
he bought a duck call at the store 
most hunters I know have at least one call tucked away in a pocket.
3 an instance of speaking to someone on the phone or attempting to contact someone by phone: I'll give you a call at around five 
he stopped returning her calls 
a ten-minute call to the emergency services.
4 a brief social visit: we paid a call on Howard. 
• a visit or journey made by a doctor or other professional in response to a request for help, especially in an emergency situation: the ambulance is out on a call 
the district nurse used to make her calls on a bicycle.
5 an appeal or demand for something to happen or be done: the call for action was welcomed 
a call to all sides to remain calm and refrain from violence 
there are more and more calls on his time. 
• [usually with negative] (call for) demand or need for (goods or services): there was little call for work as sophisticated as his.
6 [in singular] an order or request for someone to be present: he was delighted that so many former players had heeded the call to attend the conference. 
• a vocation: feeling the call to ministry, I started looking for a Bible college. 
• a powerful force of attraction: hikers can't resist the call of the Sierras.
7 (in sports) a decision or ruling made by an umpire or other official, traditionally conveyed by a shout, that the ball has gone out of play or that a rule has been breached: he was visibly irritated with the umpire's calls. 
• a decision, judgement, or prediction: personally, I'm all in favor, but it's your call 
that entrepreneurial instinct may account for his ability to make tough calls when profits are at stake 
the two old foes are so evenly matched that it's anyone's call.
8 Computing a command to execute a subroutine: parameter values may be changed by calls to a special purpose input specification subroutine.
9 Finance a demand for payment of lent or unpaid capital. 
• Stock Market short for call option.
10 [as modifier] US (in a bar, club, etc.) denoting or made with relatively expensive brands of liquor which customers request by name. Compare with well2 ( sense
4 of the noun): $6 call liquor drinks. 
PHRASES
call attention to cause people to notice: he is seeking to call attention to himself by his crimes. call someone's bluff see bluff1. call collect North American make a telephone call reversing the charges. call something into play cause or require something to start working so that one can make use of it: our active participation as spectators is called into play. call something into (or in) question cast doubt on something: these findings call into question the legitimacy of the proceedings. call it a day see day. call someone names see name. call of nature see nature. call the shots (or tune) take the initiative in deciding how something should be done: we believe in parents and teachers calling the shots.call a spade a spade see spade1. call someone to account see account. call someone/something to mind cause one to think of someone or something, especially through similarity: the still lifes call to mind certain of Cézanne's works. 
• [with negative] remember someone or something: [with clause] : I cannot call to mind where I have seen you. call someone/something to order ask those present at a meeting to be silent so that business may proceed. don't call us, we'll call you informal used as a dismissive way of saying that someone has not been successful in an audition or a job application. good call (or bad call) informal used to express approval (or criticism) of a person's decision or suggestion. [with reference to decisions made by referees or umpires.]on call
1 (of a person) able to be contacted in order to provide a professional service if necessary, but not formally on duty: our technicians are on call around the clock.
2 (of money lent) repayable on demand. to call one's own used to describe something that one can genuinely feel belongs to one: I had not an item to call my own. within call near enough to be summoned by calling: she moved into the guest room, within call of her father's room.PHRASAL VERBS call for
1 make necessary: desperate times call for desperate measures.
2 publicly ask for or demand: the report calls for an audit of endangered species.
3 North American predict or describe (the likely weather conditions) for a period of time in the future: the forecast is calling for more rain 
they're calling for temperatures in the 80s for the rest of the week.
4 chiefly British stop to pick up (someone) at the place where they are living or working: I'll call for you around seven. call something forth elicit a response: few things call forth more compassion. call someone/something down
1 cause or provoke someone or something to appear or occur: nothing called down the wrath of Nemesis quicker.
2 dated reprimand someone: he called down Clarence Drum about being so high and mighty. call someone in enlist someone's aid or services: you can either do the work yourself or call in a local builder to help you. call something in require payment of a loan or promise of money: the bank would call in loans and foreign donations. call someone/something off order a person or dog to stop attacking someone: Gunda pleaded with him to call the dog off. call something off cancel an event or agreement: they held a ballot on whether to call off industrial action. call on
1 pay a visit to (someone): he's planning to call on Katherine today.
2 (also call upon) have recourse to: we are able to call on academic staff with a wide variety of expertise. 
• [with infinitive] demand that (someone) do something: he called on the government to hold a plebiscite. call someone out
1 summon someone, especially to deal with an emergency or to do repairs: patients are to be told to stop calling doctors out unnecessarily at night.
2 (also call someone out on something, call someone on something) North American draw critical attention to someone’s unacceptable actions or behavior: people were calling him out for his negative comments 
Dan had called her out on a couple of contradictions in her story 
she called him on his claim that the media were doing a bad job of covering the economy.
3 order or advise workers to strike.
4 archaic challenge someone to a duel. call something over dated read out a list of names to determine those present: a gentleman proceeded to call over the names of the jury. call someone up
1 informal, chiefly North American phone someone: I have a list of people to call up in the morning.
2 summon someone to serve in the army: they have called up more than 20,000 reservists. 
• select someone to play on a team, especially at a higher level of competition: he was called up from Columbus to finish the season with the Yankees. call something up summon for use something that is stored or kept available: icons that allow you to call up a graphic. 
• evoke something: the special effects that called up the Mars landscape were impressive.ORIGIN late Old English ceallian, from Old Norse kalla ‘summon loudly.’
