calm 
BrE kɑːm, AmE kɑ(l)m 

A.  adjective 
① (still) 平静的 píngjìng de ‹sea, surface›; 无风的 wúfēng de ‹day, weather›
② (not excited or nervous) 镇静的 zhènjìng de keep calm! 保持镇定！ 
③ (peaceful) 宁静的 níngjìng de 
B.  noun 
① (of place, atmosphere) 宁静 níngjìng the calm before/after the storm 暴风雨来临前/过后的平静 
② (of person) 镇静 zhènjìng to keep one's calm 保持镇定 
C.  transitive verb 使…平静 shǐ… píngjìng ‹person›; 稳定 wěndìng ‹situation›; 平息 píngxī ‹fear, anger›PHRASAL VERB calm down 
A.  intransitive verb 平静下来 píngjìng xialai 
B.  transitive verb[calm somebody/something down] 使…平静 shǐ… píngjìng ‹person›; 稳定 wěndìng ‹situation›
calm 
kä(l)m

▶adjective
1 (of a person, action, or manner) not showing or feeling nervousness, anger, or other emotions: keep calm, she told herself 
his voice was calm. 
• (of a place) peaceful, especially in contrast to recent violent activity: the city was reported to be calm, but army patrols remained.
2 (of the weather) pleasantly free from wind: the night was clear and calm. 
• (of the sea) not disturbed by large waves. 
▶noun
1 the absence of violent or confrontational activity within a place or group: the elections proceeded in an atmosphere of relative calm 
[in singular] : an edgy calm reigned in the capital. 
• the absence of nervousness, agitation, or excitement in a person: his usual calm deserted him.
2 the absence of wind: in the center of the storm calm prevailed. 
• still air represented by force 0 on the Beaufort scale (less than
1 knot). 
• (often calms) an area of the sea without wind. 
▶verb [with object] make (someone) tranquil and quiet; soothe: I took him inside and tried to calm him down 
he lit a cigarette to calm his nerves 
(as adjective calming) : a cup of tea will have a calming effect. 
• [no object] (calm down) (of a person) become tranquil and quiet: gradually I calmed down and lost my anxiety. 
PHRASES
the calm before the storm see storm. ORIGIN late Middle English: via one of the Romance languages from Greek kauma ‘heat (of the day).’
