cap 
BrE kap, AmE kæp 

A.  noun 
① (hat) 便帽 biànmào 
② (part of uniform) 制服帽 zhìfúmào cap and gown ［包括方顶帽和长袍的] 学位服 to go/come to [somebody] cap in hand (asking for a favour) 谦恭地去/来求某人帮忙 (apologizing) 谦恭地向某人道歉 to put one's thinking cap on 动脑筋 
③ (lid) 盖子 gàizi the cap of a pen 笔帽 plastic bottle caps 塑料瓶盖 
④ Sport (cap itself) 队员帽 duìyuánmào [作为入选国家队或其他运动队的标志](player) 入选运动员 rùxuǎn yùndòngyuán he's got his Scottish cap 他入选了苏格兰代表队 he's an England cap 他是英格兰队队员 
⑤ (upper limit) 上限 shàngxiàn 
⑥ (for toy gun) 火药帽 huǒyàomào 
⑦ Dentistry 齿冠 chǐguān 
⑧ (contraceptive) 子宫帽 zǐgōngmào 
⑨ (of mushroom) 菌盖 jūngài 
B.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -pp-) 
① (cover) 覆盖 fùgài cloud- capped mountains 云雾笼罩的群山 
② BrE Sport 授予…队员帽 shòuyǔ… duìyuánmào to be capped for Wales 入选威尔士队 
③ Dentistry 给…镶上齿冠 gěi… xiāngshang chǐguān 
④ (outdo) 胜过 shèngguo to cap a tale 讲一个更好的故事 to cap it all 更有甚者 to cap it all, it cost less than £10 a head 更让人高兴的是，每人才花了不到10英镑 
⑤ (impose limit on) 对…封顶 duì… fēngdǐng ‹rates, tax, spending›
cap
1 
kap

▶noun
1 a kind of soft, flat hat without a brim, and sometimes having a visor. 
• [with adjective or noun modifier] a kind of soft, close-fitting head covering worn for a particular purpose or as a mark of a particular profession or status: a nurse's cap 
a bathing cap. 
• an academic mortarboard: graduates in cap and gown.
2 a protective lid or cover for an object such as a bottle, the point of a pen, or a camera lens. 
• Dentistry an artificial protective covering for a tooth. 
• the top of a bird's head when distinctively colored. 
• the broad upper part of the fruiting body of most mushrooms and toadstools, at the top of a stem and bearing gills or pores.
3 an upper limit imposed on spending or other activities: a cap on government purchases.
4 short for percussion cap. 
▶verb (caps, capped, capping) [with object]
1 put a lid or cover on: he capped his pen. 
• form a covering layer or top part of: several towers were capped by domes 
[as adjective, in combination] (-capped) : snow-capped mountains. 
• put an artificial protective covering on (a tooth). 
• provide a fitting climax or conclusion to: he capped a memorable season by becoming champion. 
• follow or reply to (a story, remark, or joke) by producing a better or more apposite one: they capped each other's stories.
2 place a limit or restriction on (prices, expenditure, or other activity): council budgets will be capped. 
PHRASES
cap (or hat) in hand humbly asking for a favor: we have to go cap in hand begging for funds.set one's cap for (or at) dated (of a woman) try to attract (a particular man) as a suitor.DERIVATIVES capful 
ˈkapˌfo͝ol 
noun (plural capfuls) ORIGIN Old English cæppe ‘hood,’ from late Latin cappa, perhaps from Latin caput ‘head.’
