capital
1 
BrE ˈkapɪt(ə)l, AmE ˈkæpədl 

A.  noun 
① Countable(letter) 大写字母 dàxiě zìmǔ with a capital (A, B etc.) figurative 确确实实 she's crazy with a capital C 她确实发疯了 
② Countable(of country) 首都 shǒudū (of state) 首府 shǒufǔ (of province) 省会 shěnghuì 
③ Countable(leader) 重要都市 zhòngyào dūshì the fashion capital of the world 世界时装之都 
④ Uncountable and countable(money, wealth) 资本 zīběn a starting capital of £50,000 5万英镑的启动资金 
⑤ Uncountable(capitalist interests) 资方 zīfāng capital and labour 劳资双方 
⑥ Uncountable(profit, advantage) 好处 hǎochu to make capital out of [something] 利用某事物谋私利 to make political capital out of [something] 从某事物中捞取政治资本 
B.  adjective 
① Law 可处死刑的 kě chǔ sǐxíng de a capital crime or offence 死罪 to carry a capital sentence 可判处死刑 
② (essential) 主要的 zhǔyào de to be of capital importance 至关重要 
capital
1 
ˈkapədl

▶noun
1 (also capital city or town) the most important city or town of a country or region, usually its seat of government and administrative center. 
• [with modifier] a place associated more than any other with a specified activity or product: Milan is the fashion capital of the world.
2 wealth in the form of money or other assets owned by a person or organization or available or contributed for a particular purpose such as starting a company or investing: the senior partner would provide the initial capital 
rates of return on invested capital were high. 
• the excess of a company's assets over its liabilities. 
• people who possess wealth and use it to control a society's economic activity, considered collectively: a conflict of interest between capital and labor. 
• [with modifier] a valuable resource of a particular kind: there is insufficient investment in human capital.
3 (also capital letter) a letter of the size and form used to begin sentences and names: he wrote the name in capitals. 
▶adjective
1 [attributive] (of an offense or charge) liable to the death penalty: murder was a capital crime.
2 [attributive] (of a letter of the alphabet) large in size and of the form used to begin sentences and names.
3 informal, dated excellent: he's a really capital fellow. 
▶exclam. British informal, dated used to express approval, satisfaction, or delight: That's splendid! Capital! 
PHRASES
make capital out of use to one's own advantage: trying to make political capital out of the weakness of his rival. with a capital —— used to give emphasis to the word or concept in question: he's trouble with a capital 
T. DERIVATIVES capitally 
ˈkapədlē 
adverb capital1 ( sense
3 of the adjective) ORIGIN Middle English (as an adjective in the sense ‘relating to the head or top,’ later ‘standing at the head or beginning’): via Old French from Latin capitalis, from caput ‘head.’
