card 
BrE kɑːd, AmE kɑrd 
noun 
① Uncountable(material) 卡片纸 kǎpiànzhǐ 
② Countable(postcard) 明信片 míngxìnpiàn (scorecard) 记分卡 jìfēnkǎ (for filing) 档案卡片 dàng'àn kǎpiàn (for indexing) 索引卡片 suǒyǐn kǎpiàn to get or be given one's cards figurative 被解雇 
③ CountableGames 纸牌 zhǐpái to play cards 打牌 a pack of cards 一副纸牌 [somebody's] last card figurative 某人的最后一招 [somebody's] strongest card figurative 某人的王牌 to have a card up one's sleeve figurative 留有一手 on the cards BrE, in the cards AmE 很可能的 to have (all the) cards stacked in one's favour/against one figurative 处于有利/不利的地位 to hold all the cards figurative 掌握全局 to lay or put one's cards on the table figurative 摊牌 to play one's best/last card figurative 打出王牌/使出最后一招 to play one's cards right figurative 办事高明 to play the … card figurative 使出…的一招 to play the law and order card 打出法治这张牌 
④ Countable(for greetings) 贺卡 hèkǎ (for condolences) 慰问卡 wèiwènkǎ a Christmas/birthday card 圣诞/生日贺卡 
⑤ Countable(for business) 名片 míngpiàn 
⑥ CountableHorse racing 赛事日程表 sàishì rìchéngbiǎo 
⑦ Countable(for membership) 会员证 huìyuánzhèng 
⑧ Countable(for payment) (credit card) 信用卡 xìnyòngkǎ (debit card) 借记卡 jièjìkǎ 
⑨ CountableComputing 扩展卡 kuòzhǎnkǎ 
⑩ Countable BrE dated (witty person) 引人发笑的人 yǐn rén fāxiào de rén (eccentric person) 怪人 guàirén 
card
1 
kärd

▶noun
1 a piece of thick, stiff paper or thin pasteboard, in particular one used for writing or printing on: some notes jotted down on a card. 
• a piece of thick paper printed with a picture and used to send a message or greeting: a birthday card. 
• a small rectangular piece of thick paper with a person's name and other details printed on it for purposes of identification, for example a business card.
2 a small rectangular piece of plastic issued by a bank, containing personal data in a machine-readable form and used chiefly to obtain cash or credit. 
• a small rectangular piece of plastic containing machine-readable data, used for paying for a telephone call or gaining entry to a room.
3 a playing card: a deck of cards. 
• (cards) a game played with playing cards.
4 Computing short for expansion card.
5 informal a person regarded as odd or amusing: He laughed, “You're a card, you know.”
6 a program of events at a racetrack. 
• a record of scores in a sporting event; a scorecard. 
▶verb [with object]
1 write (something) on a card, especially for indexing.
2 North American check the identity card of (someone), in particular as evidence of legal drinking age.
3 informal (in golf and other sports) score (a certain number of points on a scorecard): he carded 68 in the final round. 
• (of the referee in soccer and some other sports) show a yellow or red card to (a player who is being cautioned or sent off): Reid, seconds after being carded, broke down the left wing 
a Mac flanker was carded and sent to the sin bin in the first half. 
PHRASES
hold all the cards be in a very strong or advantageous position. in the cards informal very possible or likely: an overwhelming military triumph is in the cards. play the —— card exploit the specified issue or idea mentioned, especially for political advantage: he resisted the temptation to play the race card 
I'm really surprised she played the gender card. play one's cards right make the best use of one's assets and opportunities. put (or lay) one's cards on the table be completely open and honest in declaring one's resources, intentions, or attitude.ORIGIN late Middle English( sense
3 of the noun): from Old French carte, from Latin carta, charta, from Greek khartēs ‘papyrus leaf.’
