care 
BrE kɛː, AmE kɛr 
A. noun 
① Uncountable(attention) 小心 xiǎoxīn take care! (be careful) 当心！ (expression of farewell) 保重！ you should take more care over your work 你应该更加用心工作 care should be taken to avoid spelling mistakes 注意避免拼写错误 handle with care (delivering a package) 小心轻放 
② Uncountable(looking after person, animal) 照顾 zhàogù to take care of [somebody]/[something] 照顾某人/某动物 in [somebody's] care, in the care of [somebody] 由某人照料 a mother's care for her children 母亲对孩子的呵护 to take care of oneself (attend to oneself) 照顾自己 (cope) 自己应付 (defend oneself) 保护自己 you should take more care of yourself 你自己要多当心 care of … (at address of) 由…转交 ［用于信件、包裹等上，常简写为c/o］
③ Uncountable(maintenance) (of house, plants) 照管 zhàoguǎn (of car, clothes) 保养 bǎoyǎng 
④ UncountableMedicine, Psychology 护理 hùlǐ to be in/under the care of [somebody] 接受某人的治疗 
⑤ Uncountable BrE (protective custody) 收养 shōuyǎng to be in care 由收养所收养 to take or put [somebody] into care «social worker, parent, guardian» 把…送入收养所 ‹child›
⑥ Uncountableto take care of [something] (deal with) 处理某事 chǔlǐ mǒu shì I've just got one or two things to take care of 我手头刚好有一两件事情要处理 the bill has been taken care of 账单已经付过了 zhàngdān yǐjing fùguo le Tom will take care of the spider 汤姆会收拾这只蜘蛛的 
⑦ Uncountable and countable(feeling of worry) 忧虑 yōulǜ ; (cause of worry) 令人忧虑的事 lìng rén yōulǜ de shì he was full of care 他忧心忡忡 not to have a care in the world 无忧无虑 
B.  transitive verb formal 想要 xiǎngyào to care to do [something]; 想要做某事 would you care to sit down? 要不要坐下？ I've been working here for more years than I care to remember 我一直在这儿工作，都记不清有多少个年头了 he has a good brain, when he cares to use it humorous 他愿意动脑子的时候，脑子倒很灵光 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (love) 喜欢 xǐhuan to care about or for [somebody]; 在乎某人 show him that you care 向他表明你在乎他 I didn't know you cared! 才发现你喜欢过我！ 
② (feel concern) 关心 guānxīn what do you want for lunch? — I don't care 你午饭想吃什么？──随便 he didn't seem to care about failing the exam 他好像并不在乎考试不及格 [somebody] couldn't care less (about [something]) 某人（对某事物）根本不在乎 he couldn't care less who wins 他毫不在乎谁会赢 for all [somebody] cares 某人根本不在乎 she can go and sleep in the park, for all I care 她可以去公园里睡觉，我才不管呢 [somebody] doesn't care a damn/tuppence/two hoots etc. colloquial 某人根本就不在乎 as if I/he cared! 好像我/他很在乎似的！ 
care 
▶noun
1 the care of the child: safekeeping, supervision, custody, charge, protection, control, responsibility; guardianship, wardship. ANTONYMS neglect.
2 handle with care: caution, carefulness, heedfulness, heed, attention, attentiveness. ANTONYMS carelessness.
3 she chose her words with care: discretion, judiciousness, forethought, thought, regard, heed, mindfulness; accuracy, precision, discrimination. ANTONYMS carelessness.
4 the cares of the day: worry, anxiety, trouble, concern, stress, pressure, strain; sorrow, woe, hardship.
5 care for the elderly: help, aid, assistance, succor, support; concern, consideration, thought, regard, solicitude; informal TL
C.  ANTONYMS disregard.
▶verb the teachers didn't care about our work: be concerned, worry (oneself), trouble oneself, concern oneself, bother, mind, be interested; informal give a damn, give a hoot.
PHRASES
care for
1 he cares for his children: love, be fond of, be devoted to, treasure, adore, dote on, think the world of, worship, idolize.
2 would you care for a cup of coffee? like, want, desire, fancy, feel like.
3 hospices care for the terminally ill: look after, take care of, tend (to), attend to, minister to, nurse; be responsible for, keep safe, keep an eye on.
