cart 
BrE kɑːt, AmE kɑrt 

A.  noun 
① (for hay, goods) 大车 dàchē to put the cart before the horse figurative 本末倒置 to be in the cart BrE colloquial figurative 陷入困境 
② (for passengers) 两轮轻便敞篷马车 liǎng lún qīngbiàn chǎngpéng mǎchē 
③ (for small loads) 手推车 shǒutuīchē 
④ AmE (shopping) cart 购物推车 gòuwù tuīchē 
B.  transitive verb 
① (move by cart) 用大车运送 yòng dàchē yùnsòng 
② colloquial (carry) 携带 xiédài (transport generally) 运送 yùnsòng to cart [something] up/down the stairs 把某物搬上楼/搬下楼 I've been carting this heavy briefcase around all day 我提着这个沉重的公文包都一整天了 
③ colloquial (remove by force) 费力运走 fèilì yùnzǒu to cart [something] away; 费大力气把某物运走 PHRASAL VERB cart off transitive verb [cart somebody off] colloquial 强行带走 qiángxíng dàizǒu the police carted her off to the police station 警察把她押到警察局 
cart 
kärt

▶noun a strong open vehicle with two or four wheels, typically used for carrying loads and pulled by a horse. 
• a shallow open container on wheels that may be pulled or pushed by hand. 
• North American a shopping cart. 
• (also shopping cart) a facility on a website that records items selected by a customer for purchase until the transaction is completed: from the product page select the size and quantity you'd like and click ‘Buy’ to add it to your cart. 
▶verb [with object]
1 convey or put in a cart or similar vehicle: the produce was packed in crates and carted to Kansas City.
2 informal carry (a heavy or cumbersome object) somewhere with difficulty: they carted the piano down three flights of stairs. 
• remove or convey (someone) somewhere roughly or abruptly: they were carted off to the nearest police station 
seven demonstrators were carted away by the police 
my mother carted us around from one activity to another. 
PHRASES
put the cart before the horse reverse the proper order or procedure of something.DERIVATIVES carter 
ˈkärdər 
noun. cartful 
ˈkärtfo͝ol 
noun (plural cartfuls) ORIGIN Middle English: from Old Norse kartr, probably influenced by Anglo-Norman French and Old Northern French carete, diminutive of carre (see car) .
