case
1 
BrE keɪs, AmE keɪs 

A.  
① Countable(instance) 事例 shìlì on a case by case basis 逐一地 in
7 out of
10 cases 十之七八 it's a classic case of bad planning 这是典型的计划不周 a case in point 恰当的例子 
② Countable(state of affairs, situation) 情况 qíngkuàng in some cases 在某些情况下 in that case 如果那样的话 if that's the case, we need more staff 如果真是那样，我们就需要更多的员工了 as or whatever the case may be 视具体情况而定 such or this being the case 既然如此 
③ Countable(relating to individual) 个案 gè'àn in your case, we are prepared to be lenient 根据你的情况，我们准备从宽处理 I cannot make an exception in your case 我不能对你破例 
④ Countable(argument) 论据 lùnjù to have a case 有足够的证据打赢官司 to put the case for the defence 为被告辩护 to state one's case 陈述自己的观点 to make (out) a good or strong case for/against [something]/doing [something] 提出充分的理由支持/反对某事物/做某事 
⑤ CountableLaw (trial) 诉讼 sùsòng a criminal/civil case 刑事/民事诉讼 to win/lose one's case 胜诉/败诉 to hear a case 审案 to bring a case against [somebody]/[something] 起诉某人/某机构 
⑥ CountableLaw (criminal investigation) 案件 ànjiàn to work or be on a case 办案 a murder case 谋杀案 a case of theft 偷窃案 
⑦ CountableMedicine (instance of disease) 病例 bìnglì (patient with disease) 病人 bìngrén (patient with injury) 伤员 shāngyuán a severe case of typhoid 严重的伤寒病例 a psychiatric case 精神病患者 
⑧ Countable(instance of social problem) 需要救助的情况 xūyào jiùzhù de qíngkuàng (client) 需要救助的对象 xūyào jiùzhù de duìxiàng the local social services discussed her case 当地的社会福利部门讨论了她的救助问题 he's a problem case 他是个困难户 
⑨ Countablecolloquial (pitiable person) 可怜的人 kělián de rén (person without hope) 无可救药的人 wú kě jiù yào de rén 
⑩ Uncountable and countableLinguistics 格 gé the nominative case 主格 
B.  in any case adverb phrase 
① (besides, anyway) 无论如何 wúlùn rúhé 
② (at any rate) 至少 zhìshǎo 
C.  in case conjunction phrase 
① (because of possibility) 以防 yǐfáng you'd better take the keys in case I'm out 你最好带上钥匙，以防我不在家 take the street map just in case 带上街道地图，以防万一 
② (if) 假使 jiǎshǐ in case you haven't figured it out, let me explain 假如你还没弄明白，就让我来解释吧 
D.  in case of preposition phrase 如果发生 rúguǒ fāshēng in case of fire, ring the alarm bell 如遇火警，即按警铃 
case
1 
▶noun
1 a classic case of overreaction: instance, occurrence, manifestation, demonstration, exposition, exhibition; example, illustration, specimen, sample, exemplification.
2 if that is the case, I will have to find somebody else: situation, position, state of affairs, lay of the land; circumstances, conditions, facts; way things stand; informal score.
3 the officers on the case: investigation, inquiry, examination, exploration, probe, search, inquest.
4 only urgent cases were admitted for immediate examination: patient, sick person, invalid, sufferer, victim.
5 she lost her case: lawsuit, (legal) action, legal dispute, suit, trial, legal/judicial proceedings, litigation.
6 a strong case: argument, contention, reasoning, logic, defense, justification, vindication, exposition, thesis.
