cast 
BrE kɑːst, AmE kæst 

A.  transitive verb(past tense, past participle cast) 
① Cinema, Theatre (select for role) 选派…扮演角色 xuǎnpài… bànyǎn juésè to cast [somebody] as [something]; 选派某人扮演某角色 she was cast in the part or role of Ophelia 她给选中扮演奥菲莉亚这个角色 
② Cinema, Theatre (assign parts in) 为…选派演员 wèi… xuǎnpài yǎnyuán it's a very difficult play to cast 这部戏的演员很难选 
③ (describe) 描述 miáoshù ‹person›he cast himself as the innocent victim 他把自己说成是无辜的受害者 somebody is always cast in the role of scapegoat 总是有人会当替罪羊的 
④ Art, Technology (shape material in mould) 浇铸 jiāozhù ‹metal, cement, plaster›
⑤ Art, Technology (make by casting) 铸造 zhùzào a statue cast in bronze 青铜铸像 
⑥ (throw) 扔 rēng Nautical 抛 pāo ‹anchor, sounding line›to cast a net/fishing line 撒网/抛钓线 he was cast into jail 他被投入了监狱 
⑦ Zoology «snake» 蜕 tuì ‹skin›; «deer» 脱 tuō ‹antlers›
⑧ (lose) «horse» 掉落 diàoluò ‹shoe›
⑨ (cause to appear) 投射 tóushè the setting sun cast an orange glow over the mountains 群山笼罩在夕阳的橘黄色光辉中 the houses cast long shadows 房子投下长长的影子 
⑩ (cause to affect) 把…加于 bǎ… jiā yú ‹uncertainty, disparagement›to cast doubt on or upon [something] 使人对某事物生疑 to cast (a) new light on [something] 使人对某事物有新的认识 
⑪ (direct) 投射 tóushè to cast an eye over [something] 粗略地看一下某事物 she cast a welcoming smile in his direction 她朝他微笑以示欢迎 she cast him a desperate glance 她绝望地瞥了他一眼 to cast one's mind back (to/over [something]) 回忆（某事） 
⑫ (cause to take effect) to cast a spell (on or over [somebody]) literal （对某人）施魔法 figurative 迷住（某人） mízhù(mǒu rén) 
⑬ (present) 表述 biǎoshù a statement cast in carefully diplomatic tones 一份用外交口吻措词谨慎的声明 the work was cast in the form of a novella 该作品是一部中篇小说 
⑭ (in election) «voter» 投 tóu ‹vote›
⑮ Astrology «astrologer» 占卜 zhānbǔ to cast [somebody's] horoscope 给某人占星算命 
B.  intransitive verb (past tense, past participle cast) 抛钓线 pāodiàoxiàn 
C.  noun 
① plus singular or plural verb (performers) 全体演员 quántǐ yǎnyuán members of the cast 剧组成员 the film has an all-star cast 这部电影拥有全明星阵容 the supporting cast (actors) 全体配角 a cast of characters (in novel) 全部人物 
② Technology (object moulded out of plaster, plastic) 模件 mújiàn (object moulded out of iron, bronze, steel) 铸件 zhùjiàn (mould of metal, sand, plaster) 模子 múzi 
③ Medicine (plaster cast) 石膏绷带 shígāo bēngdài her leg's in a cast 她一条腿打上了石膏 
④ (type) 类型 lèixíng she was of a philosophical cast of mind 她头脑冷静沉着 
⑤ (throw) 扔 rēng (of dice) 掷 zhì (of net) 撒 sǎ (of fishing line) 抛 pāo 
⑥ (produced by worm) 排泄物 páixièwù PHRASAL VERBS cast about for, cast around for transitive verb [cast about or around for something] 努力寻找 nǔlì xúnzhǎo ‹solution, excuse, method, inspiration›cast aside transitive verb[cast aside somebody/something, cast somebody/something aside] 
① (throw aside) 把…扔到一边 bǎ… rēngdào yībiān he cast her aside roughly and ran out 他粗鲁地推开她，跑了出去 
② (reject) 抛弃 pāoqì ‹inhibitions, caution, person›; 消除 xiāochú ‹anxieties, doubts›he cast aside this suggestion 他对这个建议置之不理 cast away 
A.  [cast somebody away] transitive verb Nautical 使…离船流落 shǐ… lí chuán liúluò to be cast away on a desert island; 流落荒岛 
B.  [cast away something, cast something away] transitive verbliterary 
① (throw away) 扔掉 rēngdiào 
② (reject) 抛弃 pāoqì ‹cares, inhibitions›she cast away the unwelcome thought 她打消了那个令人不快的念头 cast down transitive verb[cast down somebody/something, cast somebody/something down] 
① literary (throw down) 扔下 rēngxia 
② (direct downwards) 垂下 chuíxia ‹eyes, gaze›
③ to be cast down literary (be depressed) 沮丧 jǔsàng cast off 
A.  intransitive verb 
① Nautical 解船缆 jiěchuánlǎn 
② (in knitting) 收针 shōuzhēn 
B.  [cast off somebody/something, cast somebody/something off] transitive verb 
① (discard, get rid of) 摆脱 bǎituō ‹oppression›; 抛弃 pāoqì ‹person›the town is still trying to cast off its dull image 这座城镇仍在努力改变其单调的形象 
② (remove) 迅速脱下 xùnsù tuōxia ‹garment›
③ (in knitting) 收 shōu ‹stitch›; 给…收针 gěi… shōuzhēn ‹row, sleeve›cast on 
A.  [cast on something] transitive verb 起 qǐ ‹stitch›; 给…起针 gěi… qǐzhēn ‹row, sleeve›
B.  intransitive verb 起针 qǐzhēn cast out transitive verb[cast out somebody/something, cast somebody/something out] literary 
① (force to leave) 赶走 gǎnzǒu he claimed to have the power to cast out demons 他声称有驱魔的法力 
② (get rid of) 去除 qùchú ‹emotion, evil›cast up transitive verb[cast up something, cast something up] 
① (wash ashore) «tide, sea, flood» 把…冲上岸 bǎ… chōngshang àn ‹body, dead fish, seaweed›
② (direct upwards) 抬高 táigāo ‹eyes, gaze›
cast
1 
kast

▶verb (past and past participle cast 
kast
)
1 [with object] throw (something) forcefully in a specified direction: lemmings cast themselves off the cliff 
figurative : individuals who do not accept the norms are cast out from the group. 
• throw (something) so as to cause it to spread over an area: the fishermen cast a large net around a school of tuna 
figurative : he cast his net far and wide in search of evidence. 
• direct (one's eyes or a look) at something: she cast down her eyes 
[with two objects] : she cast him a desperate glance. 
• throw the hooked and baited end of (a fishing line) out into the water. 
• register (a vote): residents turned out in record numbers to cast their votes. 
• Hunting let loose (hounds) on a scent. 
• [no object] Hunting (of a dog) search in different directions for a lost scent: the dog cast furiously for the vanished rabbit. 
• let down (an anchor or sounding line).
2 [with object] cause (light or shadow) to appear on a surface: the moon cast a pale light over the cottages 
figurative : running costs were already casting a shadow over the program. 
• cause (uncertainty or disparagement) to be associated with something: journalists cast doubt on the government's version of events 
I do not wish to cast aspersions on your honesty. 
• cause (a magic spell) to take effect: the witch cast a spell on her to turn her into a beast 
figurative : the city casts a spell on the visitor.
3 [with object] discard: the issue was cast from the list of concerns. 
• shed (skin or horns) in the process of growth: the antlers are cast each year. 
• (of a horse) lose (a shoe).
4 [with object] shape (metal or other material) by pouring it into a mold while molten. 
• make (a molded object) by pouring metal or other material into a mold while molten: a bell was cast for the church. 
• arrange and present in a specified form or style: he issued statements cast in tones of reason. 
• calculate and record details of (a horoscope).
5 [no object] (in country dancing) change one's position by moving a certain number of places in a certain direction along the outside of the line in which one is dancing. 
▶noun
1 an object made by shaping molten metal or similar material in a mold: bronze casts of the sculpture. 
• (also plaster cast) a mold used to make an object by casting. 
• (also plaster cast) a bandage stiffened with plaster of Paris, molded to the shape of a limb that is broken, and used to support and protect it.
2 an act of throwing something forcefully: he grabbed a spear for a third cast. 
• archaic at dice, a throw or a number thrown. 
• Fishing a throw of a fishing line.
3 [with adjective] the form or appearance of something, especially someone's features or complexion: she had a somewhat masculine cast of countenance 
the colors he wore emphasized the olive cast of his skin. 
• the character of something: this question is for minds of a more philosophical cast than mine.
4 a slight squint: he had a cast in one eye.
5 a convoluted mass of earth or sand ejected onto the surface by a burrowing worm. 
• a pellet regurgitated by a hawk or owl.
6 a search made by a hound or pack of hounds over a wide area to find a trail. 
PHRASES
be cast in a —— mold (of a person) be of the type specified: he was cast in a cautious mold. cast adrift see adrift. cast one's bread upon the waters see bread. cast one's eyes over have a quick appraising look at: he was invited to cast his eyes over the exhibition. cast light on see light1. cast lots see lot. cast one's mind back think back to a particular event or time: he cast his mind back to the fatal evening.PHRASAL VERBS cast about (or around) search far and wide (physically or mentally): he is restlessly casting about for novelties. [from a hunting term meaning ‘(of a hound) go in all directions looking for game or a lost scent.’]cast aside discard or reject: they cast aside the principles of their youth. be cast away be stranded after a shipwreck. be cast down feel depressed: she was greatly cast down by abusive criticism of her novels. cast off (or cast something off)
1 Knitting take the stitches off the needle by looping each over the next to finish the edge.
2 set a boat or ship free from its moorings: the boatmen cast off and rowed downriver 
Jack cast off our moorings. 
• (cast off) (of a boat or ship) be set free from its moorings: the ferry cast off and made a beeline for the pier.
3 let loose a hunting hound or hawk.
4 Printing estimate the space that will be taken in print by manuscript copy.cast someone off exclude someone from a relationship. cast on (or cast something on) Knitting make the first row of a specified number of loops on the needle: cast on and knit a few rows of stockinette stitch.cast something up
1 (of the sea) deposit something on the shore.
2 dated add up figures.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old Norse kasta ‘to cast or throw.’
