cat 
BrE kat, AmE kæt 
noun 
① (domestic) 猫 māo a cat basket 养猫的篮子 the cat's whiskers or pyjamas BrE or pajamas AmE colloquial (person) 最棒的人 (thing) 最棒的事物 he thinks he's the cat's whiskers colloquial 他自命不凡 enough to make a cat laugh colloquial 让人笑掉大牙的 to fight like cat and dog 激烈地打斗 to grin like a Cheshire cat 咧嘴傻笑 the cat's out of the bag colloquial 秘密泄露了 like a cat on a hot tin roof especially AmE or on hot bricks BrE colloquial 如坐针毡的 like a scalded cat colloquial 非常迅速地 like a cat that's got the cream especially BrE like the cat that got or ate the canary AmE 得意扬扬的 to look like something the cat brought or dragged in colloquial «person» 看上去邋遢不堪 no room to swing a cat colloquial 非常狭小 not to have or stand a cat in hell's chance (of doing [something]) colloquial 毫无机会（做某事） to play (a game of) cat and mouse (with [somebody]), to play a cat-and-mouse game (with [somebody]) 耍弄（某人） to rain cats and dogs colloquial 下倾盆大雨 to (wait and) see which way the cat jumps colloquial ［作决定前] 观望形势 to set or put the cat among the pigeons BrE 招惹是非 curiosity killed the cat proverb 好奇心害死猫 ［指人不要太爱管闲事］a cat may look at a king/queen proverb 猫也有权看国王/女王 ［指小人物也该有些权利］there is more than one way to skin a cat proverb humorous 有的是办法 when or while the cat's away, the mice will play proverb 猫儿不在，老鼠欢快 
② (feline) 猫科动物 māokē dòngwù lions are members of the cat family 狮子是猫科动物 
③ colloquial pejorative (woman) 恶毒的女人 èdú de nǚrén 
④ especially AmE colloquial dated (man) 爵士乐爱好者 juéshìyuè àihàozhě 
cat
1 
kat

▶noun
1 a small domesticated carnivorous mammal with soft fur, a short snout, and retractile claws. It is widely kept as a pet or for catching mice, and many breeds have been developed. [Felis catus, family Felidae (the cat family); probably domesticated in ancient Egypt from the local race of wildcat, and held in great reverence there. The cat family also includes the ocelot, serval, margay, lynx, and the big cats.] 
• a wild animal of the cat family: a marbled cat. See also big cat. 
• used in names of catlike animals of other families, e.g., ring-tailed cat. 
• historical short for cat-o'-nine-tails. 
• short for catfish. 
• short for cathead. 
• short for catboat.
2 informal, chiefly North American (particularly among jazz enthusiasts) a person, especially a man. 
▶verb (cats, catting, catted) [with object] Nautical raise (an anchor) from the surface of the water to the cathead. 
PHRASES
cat and mouse a series of cunning maneuvers designed to thwart an opponent: their elite fighters are playing cat and mouse with US troops. a cat may look at a king proverb even a person of low status or importance has rights. the cat's pajamas (or the cat's meow or British the cat's whiskers) informal an excellent person or thing: this car is the cat's pajamas.has the cat got your tongue? said to someone who, when expected to speak, remains silent. let the cat out of the bag informal reveal a secret carelessly or by mistake. like a cat on a hot tin roof informal very agitated or anxious.like herding cats informal used to refer to a difficult or impossible task, typically an attempt to organize a group of people: controlling the members of this expedition is like herding cats. look like something the cat dragged in (or brought in) informal (of a person) look very dirty or disheveled. when (or while) the cat's away, the mice will play proverb people will naturally take advantage of the absence of someone in authority to do as they like.ORIGIN Old English catt, catte, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch kat and German Katze; reinforced in Middle English by forms from late Latin cattus .
