catch 
BrE katʃ, AmE kætʃ, kɛtʃ 

A.  transitive verb(past tense, past participle caught) 
① (stop and hold) 接住 jiēzhù ‹ball›
② (capture) 捕获 bǔhuò how many fish did you catch? 你捕到多少鱼？ they have caught the burglars 他们捉住了几个窃贼 
③ (seize) 抓住 zhuāzhù he caught my arm/caught me by the arm 他抓住了我的胳膊 to catch [somebody] by the throat 掐住某人的脖子 
④ (act as recipient for) «person, container» 接 jiē ‹drips, liquid, dust›
⑤ (engage) 引起 yǐnqǐ ‹attention, interest, imagination›to catch [somebody's] eye 引起某人的注意 
⑥ (discover) 当场发现 dāngchǎng fāxiàn to catch [somebody] doing [something]; 撞见某人在做某事 to get caught; 被当场发现 to catch oneself doing [something]; 意识到自己在做某事 she caught herself wishing that her ex-husband was there 她意识到自己盼望前夫在场 to catch [somebody] red-handed 当场抓住某人 to catch [somebody] at it or in the act colloquial 当场发现某人在干坏事 
⑦ (take by surprise) 使意外 shǐ yìwài you've caught me at an awkward moment 你现在来找我可不是时候 to catch [somebody] napping 乘某人不备 they caught the enemy napping 他们打了敌人一个措手不及 to catch [somebody] with his/her trousers BrE or pants AmE down colloquial 乘某人措手不及 to be or get caught in the rain/in a blizzard 被雨淋着了/遭遇暴风雪 
⑧ (succeed in finding and speaking to) 逮住…说几句 dǎizhù… shuō jǐ jù I caught her just before she left 我在她就要离开时截住她说了几句 
⑨ (be in time for) 赶上 gǎnshang ‹bus, plane, train›to catch the post BrE 赶上邮局的一班收信时刻 
⑩ Cinema, Theatre, Television, Radio colloquial (manage to see, hear) 赶上看 gǎnshang kàn ‹play, film›; 赶上听 gǎnshang tīng ‹broadcast, concert›
⑪ AmE (attend) 观看 guānkàn ‹show, play, movie›
⑫ (manage to hear) 听见 tīngjiàn we couldn't quite catch what they were saying 我们听不大清他们在说什么 
⑬ (manage to understand) 理解 lǐjiě do you catch my meaning? 你明白我的意思吗？ 
⑭ (manage to get) 设法获得 shèfǎ huòdé did you manage to catch any sleep? 你有没有抽空睡一会儿？ 
⑮ (perceive) 察觉 chájué I caught a whiff of tobacco/the sound of bells 我闻到了一股烟草味/听到了钟声 he caught sight of her leaving the shop 他瞥见她离开了商店 
⑯ Medicine 传染上 chuánrǎn shang ‹disease, virus›
⑰ (get stuck) 绊住 bànzhù she caught her sleeve/got her sleeve caught on the nail 她的袖子被钉子挂住了 I caught my foot in a pothole 我一只脚陷进了凹坑里 the child got his head caught between the railings 那个男孩的头夹在了栏杆之间 
⑱ (hit) 击中 jīzhòng the stone caught the child on the head 石子打中了孩子的头 she caught my glass with her elbow 她的胳膊肘撞到了我的杯子 I caught him a blow in the stomach 我一拳打在他的肚子上 
⑲ (reproduce) 精确再现 jīngquè zàixiàn the article has caught the atmosphere at the concert 该文逼真地再现了音乐会上的气氛 
⑳ (in cricket) «fielder» 把…接杀出局 bǎ… jiēshā chūjú ‹batsman›㉑ (deceive) 欺骗 qīpiàn you can't catch me with that old trick 你那套老把戏骗不了我 ㉒ (strike) «light» 照射到 zhàoshè dào ‹shiny object›; «current, wave» 拍打 pāida ‹boat›; «gust, wind» 吹动 chuīdòng ‹paper›the sunlight caught the drops of rain on the web 蛛网上的雨滴在阳光照射下闪闪发亮 ㉓ (be struck by) to catch fire 着火 zháohuǒ to catch the sun «person, part of the body» 晒黑 shàihēi to catch the light «jewel» 在光照下闪闪发亮 zài guāngzhào xia shǎnshǎn fāliàng ㉔ (draw in) 屏住 bǐngzhù to catch one's breath 屏息 ㉕ colloquial to catch it (get scolding) 挨骂 áimà (get other punishment) 受罚 shòufá she really caught it that time! 那次她可被骂惨了！ 
B.  intransitive verb(past tense, past participle caught) 
① (become stuck) 被绊住 bèi bànzhù to catch on [something]; «dress, sleeve» 被…挂住 ‹nail, branch›the wheel is catching on the frame 轮胎不停地蹭擦着轮框 
② (start to burn) 开始燃烧 kāishǐ ránshāo we couldn't get the fire to catch 我们生不着火 the logs have caught 木头着火了 
③ (become fastened) «hook» 扣住 kòuzhù ; «lock» 锁住 suǒzhù 
C.  noun 
① Countable(fastening) (on purse, brooch, etc.) 搭扣 dākòu ; (on window) 窗钩 chuānggōu ; (on door) 门闩 ménshuān 
② Countable(drawback) 暗藏的不利因素 àncáng de bùlì yīnsù what's the catch? 这里面有什么鬼名堂？ 
③ CountableFishing (haul) 渔获量 yúhuòliàng (one fish) 渔获物 yúhuòwù to have a huge/good catch (of fish) 捕获大量/相当数量的鱼 
④ Countableespecially Sport 接住 jiēzhù to take a catch BrE, to make a catch AmE 接球 
⑤ Uncountable(child's game) 传接球游戏 chuánjiēqiú yóuxì 
⑥ Countable(break in voice) 哽咽 gěngyè PHRASAL VERBS catch at transitive verb [catch at something] 试图抓住 shìtú zhuāzhù he caught at my sleeve and begged me to stay 他一把抓住我的袖子，求我留下来 catch on intransitive verb 
① (become fashionable) 流行起来 liúxíng qilai to catch on with [somebody]; 受到某人的欢迎 
② colloquial (start to understand) 开始理解 kāishǐ lǐjiě to catch on to [something]; 开始理解某事物 catch out transitive verb[catch somebody out] BrE 
① (trick into making mistake) 诱使…犯错误 yòushǐ… fàn cuòwù she tried to catch him out with a trick question 她试图用一个刁钻的问题难住他 he was caught out by their disguise 他被他们的伪装欺骗了 
② (take by surprise) 使突陷困境 shǐ tū xiàn kùnjìng they were caught out by the sudden rise in interest rates 利率骤升让他们措手不及 catch up 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (reach by going faster, attain same level) 赶上 gǎnshang to catch up with [somebody]; 赶上某人 to catch up with or on [somebody]/[something] colloquial 赶上 gǎnshang ‹person, vehicle›
② (making up for neglect) 补做 bǔzuò he's got a lot of work to catch up on 他有很多工作要补上 you must catch up on your sleep 你一定要补觉 
③ (get up to date) 了解情况 liǎojiě qíngkuàng to catch up on or with [something]; 了解 ‹news, gossip›
B.  transitive verb 
① [catch somebody/something up] (reach by going faster than, attain same level as) 赶上 gǎnshang ‹person, vehicle›
② [catch somebody/something up, catch up somebody/something] (pick up) 一把抓起 yībǎ zhuāqǐ ‹object, baby›he caught up his briefcase and rushed out of the office 他一把抓起公文包冲出了办公室 
③ [catch something up] (get stuck) 把…绊住 bǎ… bànzhù the fly got caught up in the web 苍蝇被蜘蛛网黏住了 I caught my skirt or got my skirt caught up in the thorns 我的裙子被荆棘钩住了 catch up in: transitive verb to be or get caught up in [something]; 被卷入 bèi juǎnrù we were caught up in their excitement 我们被他们的兴奋情绪感染 catch up with transitive verb[catch up with somebody] 
① (find) 找到 zhǎodào death eventually catches up with all of us 人人都难逃一死 
② (start to affect) 开始困扰 kāishǐ kùnrǎo she was terrified that one day her past problems would catch up with her 她十分害怕过去的问题总有一天又会来困扰她 all these late nights are finally catching up with him 他多日熬夜，现在终于开始尝到苦果了 
catch 
kaCH keCH

▶verb (past and past participle caught 
kôt
) [with object]
1 intercept and hold (something that has been thrown, propelled, or dropped): she threw the bottle into the air and caught it again. 
• intercept the fall of (someone). 
• seize or take hold of: he caught hold of her arm as she tried to push past him. 
• [no object] (catch at) grasp or try to grasp: his hands caught at her arms as she tried to turn away.
2 capture (a person or animal that tries or would try to escape): we hadn't caught a single rabbit. 
• [no object] (of an object) accidentally become entangled or trapped in something: the charm bracelet always caught on her clothing. 
• (of a person) have (a part of one's body or clothing) become entangled or trapped in something: she caught her foot in the bedspread 
figurative : companies face increased risks of being caught in a downward spiral. 
• fix or fasten in place: her hair was caught back in a scrunchie.
3 reach in time and board (a train, bus, or aircraft): they caught the 12:15 from Chicago. 
• reach or be in a place in time to see (a person, performance, program, etc.): she was hurrying downstairs to catch the news. 
• come upon (someone) unexpectedly: unexpected snow caught us by surprise. 
• (be caught in) (of a person) unexpectedly find oneself in (an unwelcome situation): my sister was caught in a thunderstorm. 
• (catch it) informal be punished or told off. 
• surprise (someone) in an incriminating situation or in the act of doing something wrong: he was caught with bomb-making equipment in his home.
4 engage (a person's interest or imagination). 
• perceive fleetingly: she caught a glimpse of herself in the mirror. 
• hear or understand (something said), especially with effort: he bellowed something Jess couldn't catch. 
• succeed in evoking or representing: the program caught something of the flavor of Minoan culture.
5 [with object] strike (someone) on a part of the body: Ben caught him on the chin with an uppercut. 
• accidentally strike (a part of one's body) against something: she fell and caught her head on the corner of the hearth.
6 contract (an illness) through infection or contagion.
7 [no object] become ignited, due to contact with flame, and start burning: the rafters have caught. 
• (of an engine) fire and start running. 
▶noun
1 an act of catching something, typically a ball. 
• an amount of fish caught: a record catch of 6.9 billion pounds of fish. 
• [in singular] informal a person considered attractive, successful, or prestigious and so desirable as a partner or spouse: I mistakenly thought he would be a good catch.
2 a device for securing something such as a door, window, or box: the window catch was rusty.
3 a hidden problem or disadvantage in an apparently ideal situation: there's a catch in it somewhere.
4 [in singular] an unevenness in a person's voice caused by emotion: there was a catch in Anne's voice.
5 Music a round, typically one with words arranged to produce a humorous effect. 
PHRASES
catch someone napping see nap1. be caught short see short. catch at straws see straw. catch one's breath see breath. catch one's death (of cold) see death. catch someone's eye
1 be noticed by someone: a vase on a side table caught his eye.
2 attract someone's attention by making eye contact: I caught Rhoda's eye and gave her a friendly wave. catch fire become ignited and burn. catch someone in the act see act. catch the light shine or glint in the light. catch sight of suddenly notice; glimpse. you wouldn't catch —— doing something informal used to indicate that there is no possibility of the person mentioned doing what is specified: you wouldn't catch me walking back to the house alone at night.PHRASAL VERBS catch on informal
1 (of a practice or fashion) become popular: his music never caught on in the South.
2 understand what is meant or how to do something: I caught on to what it was the guy was saying. catch up succeed in reaching a person who is ahead of one. 
• do work or other tasks that one should have done earlier: he normally used the afternoons to catch up on paperwork. catch up with
1 succeed in reaching a person who is ahead of one: you go with Stasia and Katie, and I'll catch up with you.
2 talk to (someone) whom one has not seen for some time in order to find out what he or she has been doing in the interim: a chance to catch up with old friends.
3 begin to have a damaging effect on: the physical exertions began to catch up with Sue. be/get caught up in become involved in (something that one had not intended to become involved in): he had no desire to be caught up in political activities.DERIVATIVES catchable adjectiveORIGIN Middle English (also in the sense ‘chase’): from Anglo-Norman French and Old Northern French cachier, variant of Old French chacier, based on Latin captare ‘try to catch,’ from capere ‘take.’
