centre 
BrE ˈsɛntə, AmE ˈsɛn(t)ər
BrE 
A.  noun 
① (middle) 正中 the centre of the circle 圆心 before noun 中间的 zhōngjiān de ‹lane, section›centre seats 当中的座位 he had a centre parting in his hair 他头路中分 → left
2 
C.  
② especially BrE (of town, city) 中心区 zhōngxīnqū the city centre 市中心 
③ (focus, hub) 中心 zhōngxīn the centre of controversy; 争论的焦点 to be the centre of attention 引人注目 an industrial/cultural centre 工业/文化中心 a centre of population 人口密集区 
④ Administration (seat) 行政中心 xíngzhèng zhōngxīn a centre of government; 政府所在地 a centre of power; 权力的核心 
⑤ (designated building or area) 活动中心 huódòng zhōngxīn a leisure/sports centre 休闲/体育中心 
⑥ Politics the centre 中间派 zhōngjiānpài a party of the centre 中间党派 zhōngjiān dǎngpài to be left of centre 持中间偏左立场 chí zhōngjiān piān zuǒ lìchǎng before noun 中间派的 zhōngjiānpài de ‹party, politician›
⑦ Sport (player) 中锋 zhōngfēng 
⑧ Sport (kick, hit in football, rugby, hockey) 传中 chuánzhōng 
⑨ Culinary 夹心 jiāxīn chocolates with a hard centre 硬心巧克力糖 
B.  transitive verb 
① (put in middle) 把…放在中央 bǎ… fàng zài zhōngyāng 
② Sport (kick, hit) 把…传中 bǎ… chuánzhōng ‹ball›
C.  intransitive verb 传中 chuánzhōng PHRASAL VERBS centre around transitive verb[centre around somebody/something] 
① (have as main focus) «thoughts, emotion, activity» 集中于 jízhōng yú ‹person, place, topic›state occasions always centred around the king 国事活动总以国王为中心 
② (cause to be main focus) 使集中于 shǐ jízhōng yú their demands are centred around pay and conditions at work 他们提出的要求主要集中在薪酬和工作条件上 centre in: transitive verb to be centred in [something]; «activity, event» 集中于 jízhōng yú ‹place›most of the fighting was centred in the north of the capital 战斗大多发生在首都北部 centre on transitive verb[centre on somebody/something] 
① (have as focus) «thoughts, emotion, activity» 集中于 jízhōng yú ‹person, topic›public interest centres on the outcome of next week's elections 公众的注意力集中在下周的选举结果上 
② (cause to be focus) 使集中于 shǐ jízhōng yú discussions were centred on developments in eastern Europe 讨论围绕着东欧的发展而展开 centre round transitive verb = centre around centre upon transitive verb = centre on 
center 
ˈsen(t)ər 
(British centre) 
▶noun
1 the middle point of a circle or sphere, equidistant from every point on the circumference or surface. 
• a point or part that is equally distant from all sides, ends, or surfaces of something; the middle: the center of the ceiling 
the center of a vast territory. 
• a pivot or axis of rotation: the galactic rotation of the solar system around the galactic center. 
• a political party or group holding moderate opinions. 
• (in many sports) the middle player in a line or group: many coaches instruct their center to charge viciously on all plays. 
• Basketball the player who is positioned near the basket and is typically tallest on the team: only
10 centers averaged more than
10 points per game last year. 
• Baseball short for center field: he flied out to center. 
• a core, such as the filling in a piece of chocolate: truffles with liqueur centers. 
• a conical adjustable support for a workpiece in a lathe or similar machine.
2 the point from which an activity or process is directed, or on which it is focused: the city was a center of discontent 
two issues at the center of the health-care debate. 
• the most important place in the respect specified: Geneva was then the center of the international world.
3 a place or group of buildings where a specified activity is concentrated: a center for medical research 
a shopping center. 
▶verb
1 [no object] (center around/on or center something around/on) have or cause to have something as (a major concern or theme): the case centers around the couple's adopted children 
the plot centers on two young men 
[with object] : he is centering his discussion on an analysis of patterns of mortality. 
• (be centered in) (of an activity) occur mainly in or around (a specified place): the mercantile association was centered in northern Germany.
2 [with object] place in the middle: to center the needle, turn the knob. 
• American Football pass the ball back from the ground to another player to begin a down; snap. DERIVATIVES centermost 
-ˌmōst 
adjectiveORIGIN late Middle English centre, from Old French, or from Latin centrum, from Greek kentron ‘sharp point, stationary point of a pair of compasses,’ related to kentein ‘to prick.’ usage: The construction center around (as opposed to center on, or revolve around) has been denounced as incorrect and illogical since it first appeared in the mid 19th century. Although the phrase is common, it defies geometry by confusing the orbit with the fixed point: the earth revolves around (or its revolution centers on) the sun. A careful writer will use a precise expression, such as centers on, revolves around, concerns, or involves.
