certain 
BrE ˈsəːt(ə)n, AmE ˈsərtn 

A.  adjective 
① (definitely going to happen) 确定的 quèdìng de they face certain death 他们必死无疑 to make certain (of [something]) (establish as true) 弄清楚（某事物） (make sure) 确保（某事物） phone her and remind her, just to make certain 为保险起见，打电话提醒她一下 to make certain of doing [something]/to do [something]; 确保能做某事 for certain 肯定地 I can't say for certain when he will arrive 我说不准他什么时候会到 to be or make certain of a seat 确保有座 
② (sure) 确信的 quèxìn de I'm certain that he refused 我肯定他拒绝了 he feels certain of success 他确信会获得成功 I let him do it in the certain knowledge that he would fail 虽然明知他会失败，我仍然让他做这件事 
③ (specific) 某 mǒu on a certain day 在某一天 for certain reasons 由于某些原因 
④ formal (named, but not known) 某位 mǒu wèi a certain Mr Brown phoned 有个叫布朗的先生来过电话 
⑤ (slight) 轻微的 qīngwēi de there was a certain coldness in her attitude to me 她对我的态度有点儿冷淡 to a certain extent 在一定程度上 
B.  pronoun formal 某些 mǒu xiē certain of those present 有些出席的人 
certain 
▶adjective
1 I'm certain he's guilty: sure, confident, positive, convinced, in no doubt, satisfied, assured, persuaded. ANTONYMS doubtful.
2 it is certain that more changes are in the offing: unquestionable, sure, definite, beyond question, not in doubt, indubitable, undeniable, irrefutable, indisputable; obvious, evident, recognized, confirmed, accepted, acknowledged, undisputed, undoubted, unquestioned. ANTONYMS doubtful, possible, unthinkable.
3 they are certain to win: sure, very likely, bound, destined. ANTONYMS unlikely.
4 certain defeat: inevitable, assured, destined, predestined; unavoidable, inescapable, inexorable, ineluctable; informal in the bag. ANTONYMS possible, unlikely.
5 there is no certain cure for this: reliable, dependable, trustworthy, foolproof, tried and tested, effective, guaranteed, sure, unfailing, infallible; informal sure-fire, idiot-proof, goof-proof. ANTONYMS unreliable.
6 a certain sum of money: determined, definite, fixed, established, precise. ANTONYMS undefined, undetermined.
7 a certain lady: particular, specific, individual, special.
8 to a certain extent that is true: moderate, modest, medium, middling; limited, small. ANTONYMS great.
