challenge 
BrE ˈtʃalɪn(d)ʒ, AmE ˈtʃæləndʒ 

A.  noun 
① (invitation) 比赛邀请 bǐsài yāoqǐng to put out or throw down or issue a challenge 发出比赛邀请 to take up or respond to a challenge 接受比赛邀请 
② (dispute) 质问 zhìwèn a challenge to [something]; 对某事物的质疑 
③ (difficult task, difficult situation) 挑战 tiǎozhàn to present/face a challenge 提出/面对挑战 to rise to or meet the challenge 成功应对难题 unemployment is a challenge 失业对人是一种考验 
④ Law 反对 fǎnduì 
⑤ Military [为验明身份而作的] 口令盘问 kǒulìng pánwèn 
B.  transitive verb 
① (invite to compete) 向…挑战 xiàng… tiǎozhàn to challenge [somebody] to a duel 要求与某人决斗 
② (invite to justify) 要求…证明 yāoqiú… zhèngmíng ; (dispute) 质疑 zhìyí ‹claim, belief›to challenge [somebody's] authority 质疑某人的权威 
③ (test ability of) 激发 jīfā ‹ability, skill›; 激励 jīlì ‹person›
④ Law 宣布反对 xuānbù fǎnduì ‹juror›; 对…表示怀疑 duì… biǎoshì huáiyí ‹witness›
⑤ Military «guard» 向…盘问口令 xiàng… pánwèn kǒulìng 
challenge 
ˈCHalənj

▶noun
1 a call to take part in a contest or competition, especially a duel: he accepted the challenge. 
• a task or situation that tests someone's abilities: the ridge is a challenge for experienced climbers. 
• an attempt to win a contest or championship in a sport: a world title challenge.
2 an objection or query as to the truth of something, often with an implicit demand for proof: a challenge to the legality of the order. 
• a sentry's call for a password or other proof of identity. 
• Law an objection regarding the eligibility or suitability of a jury member.
3 Medicine exposure of the immune system to pathogenic organisms or antigens: recently vaccinated calves should be protected from challenge. 
▶verb [with object]
1 invite (someone) to engage in a contest: he challenged one of my men to a duel. 
• enter into competition with or opposition against: incumbent Democrats are being challenged in the 29th district. 
• make a rival claim to or threaten someone's hold on (a position): they were challenging his leadership. 
• [with object and infinitive] invite (someone) to do something that one thinks will be difficult or impossible; dare: I challenged them to make up their own minds. 
• test the abilities of: he needed something both to challenge his skills and to regain his crown as the king of the thriller.
2 dispute the truth or validity of: employees challenged the company's requirement. 
• Law object to (a jury member). 
• (of a sentry) call on (someone) for proof of identity.
3 Medicine expose (the immune system) to pathogenic organisms or antigens. DERIVATIVES challengeable 
ˈCHalənjəb(ə)l 
adjectiveORIGIN Middle English (in the senses ‘accusation’ and ‘accuse’): from Old French chalenge (noun), chalenger (verb), from Latin calumnia ‘calumny,’ calumniari ‘calumniate.’
