chance 
BrE tʃɑːns, AmE tʃæns 

A.  noun 
① Countable(opportunity) 机会 jīhuì a chance to do [something] or of doing [something]; 做某事的机会 now's your chance! 你的机会来了！ to give [somebody]/[something] half a chance 给某人/某事物一点机会 if you give me half a chance, I'll tell you what happened 如果你让我插句话，我会告诉你发生了什么 to take one's chance 充分利用自己的机会 the tablets aren't working — you haven't given them a chance yet 药片还没什么效果──你还得再等一等 
② Uncountable and countable(likelihood) 可能性 kěnéngxìng there's a chance (that) …; 有可能… the chances are that he'll resign 他可能会辞职 what are our chances of success? 我们成功的希望有多大？ any chance of a cup of coffee? colloquial 能来杯咖啡吗？ not a chance, no chance! colloquial 没门儿！ to be (still) in with a chance colloquial （还）有成功的可能 he doesn't stand a chance of persuading them 他不可能说服他们 do you have his address by any chance? 也许你有他的地址吧？ → cat 
① 
③ Uncountable(luck) 运气 yùnqi by chance 偶然 to leave nothing to chance 不存任何侥幸之心 to leave [something] to chance 某事靠碰运气 as chance would have it 碰巧 pèngqiǎo it was chance that brought us together 机缘把我们聚在了一起 
④ Countable(coincidence) 巧合 qiǎohé by a happy chance, a policeman was passing at the time 幸好当时有个警察路过 
⑤ Countable(risk) 冒险 màoxiǎn to take a chance (on [something]/doing [something]) （在某事物/做某事上）冒险 to take chances (with [something]) （拿某事物去）冒险 he was willing to take a chance on losing the contract 他甘冒失去合同的风险 
B.  adjectivebefore noun 偶然的 ǒurán de a chance encounter 邂逅 a chance acquaintance 偶然结识的人 
C.  transitive verb 
① (risk) 冒…的险 mào… de xiǎn to chance doing [something]; 冒做某事的风险 to chance one's luck colloquial 冒险一试 to chance it 冒险一试 
② formal (happen to) 碰巧 pèngqiǎo to chance to do [something]; 碰巧做某事 it chanced that they had sold the last one that morning 不巧他们那天上午卖出了最后一件 PHRASAL VERB chance on, chance upon transitive verb 
① [chance on something] (find) 偶然找到 ǒurán zhǎodào ‹object›
② [chance on somebody] (meet) 偶然遇到 ǒurán yùdào 
chance 
▶noun
1 there was a chance he might be released: possibility, prospect, probability, likelihood, likeliness, expectation, anticipation; risk, threat, danger.
2 I gave her a chance to answer: opportunity, opening, occasion, turn, time, window (of opportunity); informal shot.
3 Nichola took an awful chance: risk, gamble, venture, speculation, long shot, shot in the dark.
4 pure chance: accident, coincidence, serendipity, fate, destiny, fortuity, providence, happenstance; good fortune, luck, good luck, fluke.
▶adjective a chance discovery: accidental, fortuitous, adventitious, fluky, coincidental, serendipitous; unintentional, unintended, inadvertent, unplanned. ANTONYMS intentional.
▶verb
1 I chanced to meet him: happen.
2 she chanced another look: risk, hazard, venture, try; formal essay.
PHRASES
by chance we found a signed first edition completely by chance: fortuitously, by accident, accidentally, coincidentally, serendipitously; unintentionally, inadvertently. chance on/upon if you should chance upon a copy of the book, please let me know: come across/upon, run across/into, happen on, light on, stumble on, find by chance, meet (by chance), bump into. CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD See happen .These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
