change 
BrE tʃeɪn(d)ʒ, AmE tʃeɪndʒ 

A.  transitive verb 
① (alter by modifying) 改变 gǎibiàn to change [somebody's] mind 使某人改变主意 to change one's ways 换一种生活方式 the road has been changed into a dual carriageway 这条路改成了双向车道 
② (alter by replacement) 替换 tìhuàn (exchange, swap) 交换 jiāohuàn the water in the goldfish bowl should be changed regularly 金鱼缸里的水应当定期更换 the comma had been changed to a full stop 那个逗号改成了句号 they've changed their car for a smaller one 他们换了辆小点的车 to change (one's) clothes 换衣服 huàn yīfu to change places (with [somebody]) （与某人）交换位置 she changed places with her boss for a day 她和老板互换工作一天 to change ends Sport 交换场地 jiāohuàn chǎngdì 
③ (put clean nappy on) 给…换尿布 gěi… huàn niàobù ‹baby›
④ (accept or take back for exchange) «customer, shop, shopkeeper» 退换 tuìhuàn ‹bought item›can I change this for a size 12, please? 请问，我能把这个换成12号的吗？ if it's too big, we'll change it for you 要是太大，我们会为您调换的 
⑤ Finance 兑换 duìhuàn ‹note, foreign currency, traveller's cheque›to change dollars into euros 把美元换成欧元 can you change a £20 note? 你能换开一张20英镑的钞票吗？ can you change this £20 note for two tens, please? 你能把这张20英镑的钞票换成两张10英镑的吗？ 
⑥ (move from one to another) 更换 gēnghuàn ‹job, address, seat, TV channel›; 换乘 huàn chéng ‹train, plane›; 转变 zhuǎnbiàn ‹side›; «vehicle, wind, river» 改变 gǎibiàn ‹course›the wind has changed direction 风向变了 she changed the bag from her left hand to her right hand 她把袋子从左手换到右手 to change hands figurative 转手 jewels that have changed hands several times 几易其主的珠宝首饰 
⑦ (get services of sb. different) 另找 lìng zhǎo ‹lawyer, supplier, agent›to change one's doctor 另找一位医生看病 he has changed publishers again 他又换了出版商 
⑧ (transform) «person, magic spell, process» 使…转变 shǐ… zhuǎnbiàn ‹person, animal, substance›the witch changed him from a prince into a frog 巫婆把他从王子变成了青蛙 the sugar is changed into alcohol 糖被制成酒精 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (become different) 改变 gǎibiàn the price of petrol hasn't changed much 汽油价格变化不大 spring changes into summer 春去夏来 the colour of the leaves changed from green to brown 叶子的颜色由绿转褐 
② (to control traffic flow) «traffic lights, signal» 变换 biànhuàn the traffic lights changed from green to amber 交通灯从绿灯变成了黄灯 
③ (into different clothes) 换衣服 huàn yīfu to change for dinner 赴宴前更衣 he changed into a clean shirt 他换了一件干净的衬衣 you'd better change out of those wet clothes 你最好把那些湿衣服都换掉 
④ Transport 换乘 huàn chéng you have to change at Crewe 你得在克鲁换车 we changed from a train to a bus 我们下火车换乘公共汽车 all change! 全体换车！ 
⑤ Auto (go into different gear) 换挡 huàndǎng to change into reverse 换成倒挡 
⑥ (alter direction) «wind» 变向 biànxiàng 
⑦ (be transformed) to change (from [something]) into [something]; «person, animal, substance» （从某物）变成某物 (cóng mǒu wù)biànchéng mǒu wù 
C.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(alteration) 改变 gǎibiàn a change in the weather 天气的变化 a time of great social change 社会大变革时期 I've made a few minor changes to the wording of the letter 我对这封信的措词作了几处小改动 a change of heart (over [something]) （对某事物）态度的改变 a change for the better/worse 变好/坏 
② Countable(replacement) 更换 gēnghuàn a change of government 政府的更迭 please note my change of address 请注意我变更了地址 a tyre change 轮胎的更换 
③ Countable(new experience) 变化 biànhuà to need a change of scene/air 需要换个环境 it's a change from staying at home 这是对居家生活的一种调剂 spending the weekend at home together will make a refreshing change 全家人一起在家度周末会让大家感到新鲜 for a change (for variety) 为了改变一下 (as improvement) 作为改进 I think I'll have steak for a change 我想来份牛排，换换口味 why don't you try being polite to people for a change? 你为什么就不能对人有礼貌呢？ 
④ Countable(clothes) 替换物 tìhuànwù a change of clothes/socks 一套换洗的衣服/一双换洗的袜子 
⑤ CountableTransport 换乘 huàn chéng I had to make a change at Birmingham 我得在伯明翰换车 
⑥ Uncountable(money given back after paying) 找头 zhǎotou she gave me 68p change 她找给我68便士 ‘no change given’ (on machine) “不找零” keep the change! 零头不用找了！ to get no change out of [somebody] BrE colloquial (receive no help) 从某人那里得不到帮助 (receive no information) 从某人那里打听不到消息 (be unable to exploit sb.) 从某人那里占不到便宜 
⑦ Uncountable(coins) 硬币 yìngbì have you any small change? 你有没有小额硬币？ 
⑧ Uncountable(money to exchange for larger units) 零钱 língqián have you got change for a £10 note? 你有没有零钱换开一张10英镑的钞票？ 
⑨ Uncountablecolloquial (menopause) the change 绝经期 juéjīngqī she's going through the change 她正处于更年期 tā zhèng chǔyú gēngniánqī 
⑩ Countable(in bell-ringing) to ring the changes literal 敲奏钟乐 figurative 变换花样 biànhuàn huāyàng a wide range of styles and colours with which to ring the changes 可以用不同方式搭配的各种样式和颜色 PHRASAL VERBS change around 
A.  [change around somebody/something, change somebody/something around] transitive verb 
① (to different positions) 变换…的位置 biànhuàn… de wèizhi ‹people, thing›
② (to different roles) 将…对调职位 jiāng… duìdiào zhíwèi ‹people›
B.  intransitive verb «people» 交换位置 jiāohuàn wèizhi change down intransitive verb BrE 换低一挡 huàn dī yī dǎng change over 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (adopt new system) to change over (from [something]) (to [something]); «person, organization» （从某事物）改变（成某事物） (cóng mǒu shìwù)gǎibiàn(chéng mǒu shìwù) the company is changing over from car manufacture to aircraft manufacture 这家公司正从生产汽车转而生产飞机 more and more people are changing over to unleaded petrol 越来越多的人改用无铅汽油 
② (swap roles) «people, drivers» 交换位置 jiāohuàn wèizhi we shared the driving, changing over at lunchtime 我们轮流驾驶，午饭时换了班 
B.  transitive verb[change over something, change something over] 将…对调位置 jiāng… duìdiào wèizhi ‹two things›change round transitive verb BrE = change around change up intransitive verb BrE 换高一挡 huàn gāo yī dǎng 
change 
CHānj

▶verb
1 make or become different: [with object] : a proposal to change the law 
[no object] : a Virginia creeper just beginning to change from green to gold. 
• make or become a different substance entirely; transform: [with object] : filters change the ammonia into nitrate 
[no object] : computer graphics can show cars changing into cheetahs. 
• [no object, with complement] alter in terms of: the ferns began to change shape. 
• [no object] (of traffic lights) move from one color of signal to another. 
• [no object] (of the moon) arrive at a fresh phase; become new.
2 [with object] take or use another instead of: she decided to change her name. 
• move from one to another: she changed jobs incessantly 
change sides. 
• [no object] move to a different train, airplane, or subway line. 
• give up (something) in exchange for something else: we changed the shades for vertical blinds. 
• remove (something dirty or faulty) and replace it with another of the same kind: change a light bulb. 
• put a clean diaper on (a baby or young child). 
• engage a different gear in a motor vehicle: wait for a gap and then change gears 
figurative : with business concluded, the convention changes gear and a gigantic circus takes over the town. 
• exchange (a sum of money) for the same amount in smaller denominations or in coins, or for different currency. 
• [no object] put different clothes on: he changed for dinner. 
▶noun
1 the act or instance of making or becoming different: the change from a nomadic to an agricultural society 
environmental change. 
• the substitution of one thing for another: a change of venue. 
• an alteration or modification: a change came over Eddie's face. 
• a new or refreshingly different experience: couscous makes an interesting change from rice. 
• [in singular] a clean garment or garments as a replacement for clothes one is wearing: a change of socks. 
• (the change or the change of life) informal menopause. 
• the moon's arrival at a fresh phase, typically at the new moon. 
• Baseball another term for change-up.
2 coins as opposed to paper currency: a handful of loose change. 
• money given in exchange for the same amount in larger denominations. 
• money returned to someone as the balance of the amount paid for something: I watched him pocket the change.
3 (usually changes) an order in which a peal of bells can be rung.
4 (Change or 'Change) British historical a place where merchants met to do business. 
PHRASES
change color blanch or flush. change hands (of a business or building) pass to a different owner. 
• (of money or a marketable commodity) pass to another person during a business transaction: no money has changed hands. change one's mind adopt a different opinion or plan. a change of heart a move to a different opinion or attitude. change places exchange places or roles: under the bishop's plan, he and I were to change places. change step (in marching) alter one's step so that the opposite leg marks time. change the subject begin talking about something different, especially to avoid embarrassment or the divulgence of confidences. change one's tune express a different opinion or behave in a different way. for a change contrary to how things usually happen; for variety: it's nice to be pampered for a change. ring the changes vary the ways of expressing, arranging, or doing something. [with allusion to bell-ringing and the different orders in which a peal of bells may be rung.]PHRASAL VERBS change off take turns. change over move from one system or situation to another: crop farmers have to change over to dairy farming.DERIVATIVES changeful 
ˈCHānjf(ə)l 
adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: from Old French change (noun), changer (verb), from late Latin cambiare, from Latin cambire ‘barter,’ probably of Celtic origin.
