channel 
BrE ˈtʃan(ə)l, AmE ˈtʃænl 

A.  noun 
① Television 电视台 diànshìtái a programme on channel
4 第4台的一个节目 to change or switch channels 换台 
② Radio 频道 píndào 
③ figurative (for communication) 途径 tújìng to do [something] through the proper channels 通过正当途径做某事 secret channels of information 消息的秘密来源 to open channels of communication 开辟沟通的渠道 
④ figurative (for expression) 表达方式 biǎodá fāngshì music is a great channel for releasing your emotions 音乐是释放情感的好方法 
⑤ (passage for water) 水渠 shuǐqú an irrigation channel 灌溉渠 
⑥ Geography (navigable stretch of water) 航道 hángdào 
⑦ Geography (joining two areas of water) 海峡 hǎixiá 
⑧ (the Channel or the English Channel) 英吉利海峡 ; before noun 英吉利海峡的 Yīngjílì Hǎixiá de ‹crossing, port›
⑨ Computing 通道 tōngdào 
⑩ Technology (groove) 槽 cáo 
B.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -ll-, AmE -l-) 
① (cut) 使形成沟槽 shǐ xíngchéng gōucáo deep grooves had been channelled in the rock by the action of water 岩石表面在水的作用下形成了许多深槽 
② (carry) 经沟槽输送 jīng gōucáo shūsòng water is channelled to the fields through a series of irrigation canals 水通过一系列灌溉渠引到田里 
③ figurative (direct) 引导 yǐndǎo we must channel all our resources into the project 我们必须把全部资源都投入到这个项目中来 all our efforts must be channelled into/towards finding an antidote 我们必须尽一切努力找到解毒剂 PHRASAL VERB channel off transitive verb[channel off something, channel something off] 
① (carry away) 排出 páichū ‹water, liquid›
② figurative (direct away) 拨出 bōchū ‹energy, resources›the government has channelled off substantial funds to deal with the emergency 政府已调拨了大量资金应急 
channel 
ˈCHanl

▶noun
1 a length of water wider than a strait, joining two larger areas of water, especially two seas. 
• the navigable part of a waterway: buoys marked the safe limits of the channel. 
• a hollow bed for a natural or artificial waterway. 
• (the Channel) the English Channel. 
• a tubular passage or duct for liquid. 
• an electric circuit that acts as a path for a signal: an audio channel. 
• Electronics the semiconductor region in a field-effect transistor that forms the main current path between the source and the drain.
2 a band of frequencies used in radio and television transmission, especially as used by a particular station. 
• a service or station using a particular frequency: a shopping channel.
3 a medium for communication or the passage of information: they didn't apply through the proper channels. 
▶verb (channels, channeling, channeled; British channels, channelling, channelled) [with object]
1 direct toward a particular end or object: advertisers channel money into radio. 
• guide along a particular route or through a specified medium: many countries channel their aid through charities. 
• (of a person) serve as a medium for (a spirit). 
• emulate or seem to be inspired by: Meg Ryan plays Avery as if she's channeling Nicole Kidman.
2 (usually as adjective channeled) form channels or grooves in: the lower jawbone is deeply channeled. ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French chanel, from Latin canalis ‘pipe, groove, channel,’ from canna ‘reed’ (see cane). Compare with canal .
