charge 
BrE tʃɑːdʒ, AmE tʃɑrdʒ 
A. transitive verb 
① (ask for as payment) 收取 shōuqǔ ‹amount, sum, interest, commission›(ask as payment from) 向…收费 xiàng… shōufèi ‹customer, client›she charged me £3 for cleaning the windows 她擦窗户要了我3英镑 we charge postage to the customer or the customer for postage 我们向顾客收取邮资 
② (pay on account) 把…记在账上 bǎ… jì zài zhàng shang I never carry cash: I charge everything 我从不带现金，一切都记账 
③ AmE (pay for with credit card) 用信用卡支付 yòng xìnyòngkǎ zhīfù don't worry: I'll charge it 别担心，我会用信用卡付款的 
④ (make accusation against) 指责 zhǐzé ; Law (officially accuse of crime) 指控 zhǐkòng they charged her with murder/driving in excess of the speed limit 他们指控她谋杀/超速驾车 they charged him with hypocrisy/neglecting his duty 他们指责他虚伪/玩忽职守 
⑤ Law (instruct) «judge» 向…发出指示 xiàng… fāchū zhǐshì ‹jury›
⑥ (attack) «troops» 进攻 jìngōng ‹enemy lines›; «person, animal» 冲向 chōngxiàng ‹person, fence›
⑦ formal (fill) 把…装满 bǎ… zhuāngmǎn ‹container›please charge your glasses and drink a toast to the bride and groom! 请各位斟满酒，为新娘和新郎干杯！ 
⑧ formal (load) 为…装弹药 wèi… zhuāng dànyào ‹firearm, shell›
⑨ (pervade) 使充满 shǐ chōngmǎn her voice was charged with anxiety 她的声音饱含焦虑 
⑩ Electricity to charge (up) 给…充电 gěi… chōngdiàn ‹battery, accumulator, capacitor›
⑪ formal (give responsibility to) 赋予…职责 fùyǔ… zhízé she was charged with organizing the reception 她负责组织招待会 they have charged me with an important mission 他们交给我一项重要的使命 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (ask for payment) 收费 shōufèi to charge for delivery 收取送货费 
② (attack) «troops» 进攻 jìngōng ; «person, animal» 猛冲 měng chōng charge! Military 冲啊！ the police charged towards the demonstrators 警察冲向示威者 the bull charged into the tree 公牛一头撞在树上 
③ (rush) 冲 chōng he charged upstairs to answer the phone 他冲上楼去接电话 
④ Electricity «battery» 充电 chōngdiàn 
C.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(fee) 费用 fèiyong free of charge 免费 
② Uncountable(control) 主管 zhǔguǎn who's in charge here? 这里谁负责？ to take charge 接管 to take charge of [somebody]/[something] 负责照管某人/负责某事物 to be in/have charge of [somebody]/[something]/of doing [something] 负责照管某人/负责某事物/负责做某事 in or under [somebody's] charge, in or under the charge of [somebody] 由某人负责 to leave/put [somebody] in charge (of [something]/doing [something]) 让某人负责（某事物/做某事） 
③ Countable(attack) 进攻 jìngōng (onrush) 猛冲 měng chōng to mount a charge against [somebody]/[something] 对某人/某物发起进攻 a bayonet charge 白刃战 the bull lowered its head and made a charge towards or at the fence 公牛低头冲向围栏 
④ Countable(accusation) 指责 zhǐzé Law (against accused) 指控 zhǐkòng to make a charge against [somebody] 指责某人 to drop the charges 撤销指控 to bring or press or prefer charges (against [somebody]) 起诉（某人） to arrest [somebody] on a charge of murder 以谋杀罪拘捕某人 
⑤ CountableLaw (instruction) 指示 zhǐshì a charge to [somebody]; 给…的指示 ‹jury›
⑥ Countableformal (sb. in sb.'s care) 被照管的人 bèi zhàoguǎn de rén (sth. in sb.'s care) 被照管的物品 bèi zhàoguǎn de wùpǐn the charges of a teacher 老师分管的学生 
⑦ Countableformal (task) 任务 rènwu (duty) 职责 zhízé 
⑧ Countable(explosive) 炸药量 zhàyàoliàng 
⑨ Uncountable and countable AmE colloquial (credit account) 赊购账 shēgòuzhàng is it cash or charge? 是付现金还是记账？ 
⑩ Uncountable and countablePhysics 电荷 diànhè a positive/negative charge 正/负电荷 
⑪ UncountableElectricity (amount of electricity) 电量 diànliàng is there any charge left in the battery? 电池还有电吗？ a unit of electric charge 电量单位 
⑫ Uncountable and countableElectricity (act of filling with electricity) 充电 chōngdiàn on charge 在充电 
⑬ Countabledated (burden) 负担 fùdān 
charge 
▶verb
1 he didn't charge much: ask in payment, ask, levy, demand, want, exact; bill, invoice.
2 the subscription will be charged to your account: bill, debit from, take from.
3 two men were charged with theft: accuse of, indict for, arraign for, arraign on a charge of; prosecute for, try for, put on trial for, inculpate for.
4 they charged him with reforming the system: entrust, burden, encumber, saddle, tax.
5 the cavalry charged the tanks: attack, storm, assault, assail, fall on, swoop on, descend on; informal lay into, tear into.
6 we charged into the crowd: rush, storm, stampede, push, plow, launch oneself, go headlong, steam, barrel, zoom.
7 his work was charged with energy: suffuse, pervade, permeate, saturate, infuse, imbue, load, fill.
8 I charge you to stop: order, command, direct, instruct, enjoin; formal adjure; literary bid.
▶noun
1 all customers pay a charge: fee, payment, price, tariff, amount, sum, fare, levy.
2 he pleaded guilty to the charge: accusation, allegation, indictment, arraignment.
3 an infantry charge: attack, assault, offensive, onslaught, drive, push, thrust.
4 the child was in her charge: care, protection, safekeeping, control; custody, guardianship, wardship; hands.
5 his charge was to save the business: duty, responsibility, task, job, assignment, mission, function; informal marching orders.
6 the safety of my charge: ward, protégé, dependent.
7 the judge gave a careful charge to the jury: instruction, direction, directive, order, command, dictate, exhortation.
8 informal I get a real charge out of working hard: thrill, tingle, glow; excitement, stimulation, enjoyment, pleasure; informal kick, buzz, rush.
PHRASES
in charge of I'm in charge of museum security: responsible for, in control of, in command of, at the helm/wheel of; managing, running, administering, directing, supervising, overseeing, controlling. CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD See attack .These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.REFLECTIONS Joshua Ferrischarge It looks dull but it’s wonderfully diverse. The noun form alone contains sixteen definitions, according to the Oxford English Dictionary, among them these two: that of a duty, or responsibility (Cara’s main charge was to raise the two boys properly); and that of an accusation (Cara was charged with two counts of infanticide). In the first instance, the subject is elected; in the second, damned. Like John Gardner’s distinction that all fiction falls into one of two categories (the hero goes on a quest or a stranger comes to town), the word charge neatly situates fiction into the elected or the damned. The best fiction does both. Dante is charged with touring hell, to survey the diverse and sundry charged; Humbert Humbert’s charge leads to the damnable charges of which he is clearly guilty; Hamlet charges himself with inaction, cowardice, and insanity until at last he executes his charge.Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
