character 
BrE ˈkarəktə, AmE ˈkɛrəktər 
noun 
① Uncountable(personality) 性格 xìnggé not in or out of character (for [somebody]) 不符合（某人）自身的性格 
② Uncountable(reputation) 名誉 míngyù a person of good/bad character 口碑好/不好的人 
③ Uncountable(personal strength) 骨气 gǔqì strength of character 刚毅 
④ Uncountable(nature) 特性 tèxìng (individuality) 个性 gèxìng a house with character 有特色的房子 
⑤ Countable(features) 特征 tèzhēng to take on the character of [something] 具有某种特征 
⑥ Countable(individual) 有个性的人 yǒu gèxìng de rén to be quite a character colloquial 相当有个性 a local character 当地的名人 
⑦ Countablepejorative (odd person) 怪人 guàirén a suspicious character 可疑的人 
⑧ CountableLiterature, Theatre 人物 rénwù the characters in the novels of Dickens 狄更斯小说中的人物 to play the character of [somebody] 扮演某角色 
⑨ CountablePrinting (letter) 字 zì (mark) 符号 fúhào 
character 
ˈkerəktər

▶noun
1 the mental and moral qualities distinctive to an individual: running away was not in keeping with her character. 
• the distinctive nature of something: gas lamps give the area its character. 
• the quality of being individual, typically in an interesting or unusual way: the island is full of character. 
• strength and originality in a person's nature: she had character as well as beauty. 
• a person's good reputation: to what do I owe this attack on my character? 
• dated a written statement of someone's good qualities; a recommendation.
2 a person in a novel, play, or movie. 
• a part played by an actor. 
• [with adjective] a person seen in terms of a particular aspect of character: he was a larger-than-life character 
shady characters. 
• informal an interesting or amusing individual: he's a real character.
3 a printed or written letter or symbol. 
• Computing a symbol representing a letter or number.
4 chiefly Biology a characteristic, especially one that assists in the identification of a species. 
▶verb [with object] archaic inscribe; engrave. 
• describe; characterize: you have well charactered him. 
PHRASES
in (or out of) character in keeping (or not in keeping) with someone's usual pattern of behavior.DERIVATIVES characterful 
-fəl 
adjective. characterfully adverb. characterless 
ˈker(ə)ktərˌləs 
adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: from Old French caractere, via Latin from Greek kharaktēr ‘a stamping tool.’ From the early sense ‘distinctive mark’ arose ‘token, feature, or trait’ (early 16th century), and from this ‘a description, especially of a person's qualities,’ giving rise to ‘distinguishing qualities.’
