cheap 
BrE tʃiːp, AmE tʃip 

A.  adjective 
① (low in price) 便宜的 piányi de it's cheap to produce 这生产起来造价不高 it works out cheaper to take the train 算下来坐火车更便宜 the cheap seats 廉价座位 cheap and cheerful 物美价廉 life is cheap 人命不值钱 on the cheap 便宜地 piányi de 
② (good value) 合算的 hésuàn de it's cheap at the price 以这个价购买，物超所值 this shirt is very cheap at £15.00 这件衬衫价格15英镑很划算 
③ (shoddy) 劣质的 lièzhì de ‹furniture, wine›it's cheap and nasty 这东西质劣价低 
④ (insincere) 浅薄的 qiǎnbó de ‹flattery, compliment›; (worthless) 无价值的 wújiàzhí de 
⑤ (easy) 不费力的 bù fèilì de a cheap thrill 唾手可得的刺激 talk is cheap 说空话不费力 
⑥ (mean) 粗鄙的 cūbǐ de ‹joke, remark, trick›; 卑鄙的 bēibǐ de ‹behaviour›a cheap shot 恶意的中伤 to feel cheap 感到低三下四 
B.  adverb colloquial 便宜地 piányi de they're going cheap 他们在降价销售 
cheap 
CHēp

▶adjective (of an item for sale) low in price; worth more than its cost: they bought some cheap fruit 
local buses were reliable and cheap. 
• charging low prices: a cheap restaurant. 
• inexpensive because of inferior quality: cheap, shoddy goods. 
• North American informal miserly; stingy: she's too cheap to send me a postcard. 
• of little worth because achieved in a discreditable way requiring little effort: her moment of cheap triumph. 
• deserving of contempt: a cheap trick. 
▶adverb at or for a low price: a house that was going cheap. 
PHRASES
cheap and cheerful British simple and inexpensive. cheap and nasty British of low cost and bad quality: the materials can seem a bit cheap and nasty. (as) cheap as chips British informal very inexpensive: the second-hand copies are cheap as chips 
[as modifier] : cheap-as-chips jewelry. cheap at the price (or humorous at half the price) British well worth having, regardless of the cost: as an investment for the future, the books are cheap at the price.on the cheap informal at a low cost: in search of symbols of prestige, but on the cheap.DERIVATIVES cheapish 
ˈCHēpiSH 
adjectiveORIGIN late 15th century: from an obsolete phrase good cheap ‘a good bargain,’ from Old English cēap ‘bargaining, trade,’ based on Latin caupo ‘small trader, innkeeper.’
