check
1 
BrE tʃɛk, AmE tʃɛk 

A.  transitive verb 
① (ensure) 查明 chámíng to check that/whether the shelf is level 查看一下搁板是否平整 to check the availability of the product before ordering 下订单前先确认是否有货 check what he wants for breakfast 问清楚他早饭想吃什么 have you checked with Tom that we can use the conference room? 你跟汤姆确认过我们可以使用会议室吗？ 
② (inspect, examine) 检查 jiǎnchá she checked the signature 她查验了签名 we'd better check the contents against the inventory 我们最好参照存货清单查点货物 the nurse checked his temperature every few hours 护士每隔几小时就为他量一次体温 he's not in the lounge — check the kitchen 他不在起居室──到厨房去看看 
③ (stop from developing) 制止 zhìzhǐ (cause sth. to develop more slowly) 控制 kòngzhì to check the enemy's advance 阻止敌人向前推进 to apply pressure to the wound to check the flow of blood 给伤口加压止血 to check the growth of public spending 控制公共开支的增长 
④ (stop from moving) 使…停下 shǐ… tíngxia ‹person, animal›she checked her horse 她把马带住 
⑤ (restrain, keep in) 抑制 yìzhì ‹emotions, laughter›to check one's anger/tears 忍住怒火/眼泪 he checked an impulse to run away 他克制住想逃走的冲动 
⑥ (in chess) 将 jiāng ‹king›; 将…的军 jiāng… de jūn ‹person›
⑦ (in ice hockey) 阻截 zǔjié 
⑧ AmE (leave for safekeeping) 寄放 jìfàng 
⑨ AmE (consign for loading on plane, train) 托运 tuōyùn ‹bag, luggage›
⑩ especially AmE (tick) 在…上打钩 zài… shang dǎgōu ‹box, item›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (ensure) 查明 chámíng have you locked the door? — I think so, but you'd better check 你锁门了吗？──锁了，但你最好再查看一下 I'll check with an expert to see if it's possible 我会找专家核实这是否可能 
② (inspect) 检查 jiǎnchá to check for a gas leak 检查煤气是否泄漏 
③ (stop) «person, animal» 突然停下 tūrán tíngxia 
④ (tally) «facts, statements, figures» 相符 xiāngfú to check with [something]; 与某事物相符 
C.  noun 
① Countable(inspection) 检查 jiǎnchá the police are making random or spot checks on cars 警方正在对汽车进行抽查 this is a useful check for accuracy 这是一种检验准确性的有用方法 she gave the bill a quick check 她很快核对了一下账单 
② Countable(monitoring) 监视 jiānshì to keep a check on [somebody]/[something] 监视 jiānshì ‹person, sb.'s movements› 监控 jiānkòng ‹expenditure› 监测 jiāncè ‹temperature›
③ Uncountable and countable(sth. halting progress) 制止物 zhìzhǐwù (sth. retarding progress) 抑制物 yìzhìwù (restraint) 控制 kòngzhì to put or place a check on [something] 控制 kòngzhì ‹immigration, production, growth, spending›the presence of the headmistress served as a check on their behaviour 女校长在场，他们不敢乱来 to hold oneself in check 控制住自己 the enemy was held in check by the floodwaters 敌人被洪水挡住了 
④ Uncountable(in chess) 将军 jiāngjūn to put the king in check 使王被将军 you're in check! 将你一军！ 
⑤ Countable AmE (ticket) 存物牌 cúnwùpái 
⑥ Countable AmE (bill) 账单 zhàngdān to pay the check 付账 to pick up the check 做东请客 
⑦ AmE = tick
1 
A. 
③ 
D.  reflexive verb 
① (restrain) to check oneself 克制自己 kèzhì zìjǐ 
② (inspect) to check oneself in the mirror 照镜子 zhào jìngzi 
E.  exclamation 
① (in chess) check! 将（军）！ jiāng(jūn)！ 
② especially AmE colloquial (expressing agreement) [用以表示同意或已办好某项事务]do you have your tickets? — check — passport? — check 你拿上票了吗？──拿了──护照呢？──带了 PHRASAL VERBS check in 
A.  intransitive verb 办理登记手续 bànlǐ dēngjì shǒuxù you'd better check in at your hotel first 你最好先到宾馆办理住宿登记 do we have to show our passports when we check in? 我们办理登记手续时要出示护照吗？ 
B.  [check somebody in, check in somebody] transitive verb (as hotel guest, passenger) 为…办理登记手续 wèi… bànlǐ dēngjì shǒuxù his job is to check the passengers in 他负责为乘客办理登记手续 
C.  [check something in, check in something] transitive verb 
① (register as baggage) «clerk, passenger» 托运 tuōyùn ‹bag, luggage›
② AmE (leave for safekeeping) «attendant, customer, passenger» 寄放 jìfàng ‹clothing, baggage›check into transitive verb [check into something] 在…登记住宿 zài… dēngjì zhùsù ‹hotel, guesthouse›check off transitive verb[check off something, check something off] AmE 打钩核对 dǎgōu héduì ‹item, entry, number›check on transitive verb[check on somebody/something] 
① (monitor) 监控 jiānkòng will you check on the baby when you go upstairs, please? 你上楼时看一眼宝宝，好吗？ she kept coming in to check on our progress 她老是进来查看我们的进展 
② (investigate) 核查 héchá I checked on all the details before I wrote the article 我写这篇文章之前核实过所有细节 will you go and check on what the children are doing, please? 你去看看孩子们在做什么，好吗？ check out 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (leave) 办理退房手续 bànlǐ tuìfáng shǒuxù to check out of [something]; 退房离开 ‹hotel, guesthouse›
② (be correct) «statement, credentials» 对得上 duìdeshàng do the figures check out? 这些数字对得上吗？ 
B.  [check something out, check out something] transitive verb 
① (inspect) 检查 jiǎnchá ‹place, package›
② AmE (retrieve from safekeeping) «customer, passenger» 从寄放处领取 cóng jìfàngchù lǐngqǔ ‹clothing, baggage›
③ AmE (at supermarket) «customer» 为…付款 wèi… fùkuǎn ‹goods›
④ (from a library) «borrower» 借出 jièchū ‹book›
⑤ colloquial (try) 尝试 chángshì ‹restaurant, shop, food›this new website is worth checking out 这个新网站值得一试 
C.  [check somebody/something out, check out somebody/something] transitive verb 
① (investigate) 调查 diàochá to check out [somebody's] references 查证某人的推荐材料 I've had him checked out 我已经让人调查过他了 
② colloquial (look at) 瞧 qiáo check that man out! 瞧瞧那个人！ 
D.  [check somebody out, check out somebody] transitive verb (from hotel) «receptionist» 为…办理退房手续 wèi… bànlǐ tuìfáng shǒuxù ‹guest›check over transitive verb 
① [check something over] (inspect) 检查 jiǎnchá to check the bill over 核对账单 
② [check somebody over] Medicine «doctor, paramedic» 为…检查身体 wèi… jiǎnchá shēntǐ ‹patient, accident victim›check through transitive verb[check something through, check through something] 
① (examine carefully) 仔细检查 zǐxì jiǎnchá ‹figures, letter, manuscript›
② AmE (when travelling by air) 托运 tuōyùn ‹baggage›check up 
A.  intransitive verb 查明 chámíng 
B.  [check up something, check something up] transitive verb 核查 héchá to check up that all is well 看看是否一切顺利 check up on transitive verb 
① [check up on somebody] (investigate) 调查 diàochá 
② [check up on something] (verify) 核实 héshí ‹story, details›they are checking up on the reliability of the system 他们正在查验系统的可靠性 
check
1 
CHek

▶verb [with object]
1 examine (something) in order to determine its accuracy, quality, or condition, or to detect the presence of something: customs officers have the right to check all luggage 
[no object] : a simple blood test to check for anemia. 
• verify or establish to one's satisfaction: check the expiration date on your passport 
[with clause] : she glanced over her shoulder to check that the door was shut. 
• (check something against) verify the accuracy of something by comparing it with (something else): keep your receipt to check against your statement. 
• [no object] agree or correspond when compared. 
• informal look at; take notice of: check the remix.
2 stop or slow down the progress of (something undesirable): efforts were made to check the disease. 
• curb or restrain (a feeling or emotion): he learned to check his excitement. 
• Ice Hockey hamper or neutralize (an opponent) with one's body or stick. 
• [no object] (check against) provide a means of preventing: processes to check against deterioration in the quality of the data held.
3 North American (of a passenger) consign (baggage) to the care of the transport provider with whom they are traveling: I checked my bag and got my boarding pass. 
• deposit (a coat, bag, or other item) for temporary safekeeping in the cloakroom of a restaurant, theater, etc.: the drinks weren't expensive and there's no cover charge but you do have to check your coat for $3.00.
4 mark or click on (a box) in order to select a particular option on a form, questionnaire, etc.: users who want privacy should check the box that prevents your files from being shared.
5 [with object] Chess move a piece or pawn so that (the opposing king) is under attack.
6 [no object] (in poker) choose not to make a bet when called upon, allowing the action to move to another player.
7 [no object] (of a hound) pause to make sure of or regain a scent. 
• (of a trained hawk) abandon the intended quarry and fly after other prey. 
▶noun
1 an examination to test or ascertain accuracy, quality, or satisfactory condition: a campaign calling for regular checks on gas appliances 
a health check.
2 a stopping or slowing of progress: there was no check to the expansion of the market. 
• a means of control or restraint: a permanent check upon the growth or abuse of central authority. 
• Ice Hockey an act of hampering or neutralizing an opponent with one's body or stick. 
• a temporary loss of the scent in hunting. 
• Falconry a false stoop when a hawk abandons its intended quarry and pursues other prey.
3 Chess a move by which a piece or pawn directly attacks the opponent's king. If the defending player cannot counter the attack, the king is checkmated.
4 (British cheque) a written order to a bank to pay a stated sum from the drawer's account: he was awarded a check for $1,000. 
• North American the bill in a restaurant.
5 (also baggage or luggage check) a token of identification for left luggage.
6 a counter used as a stake in a gambling game.
7 North American short for check mark.
8 a part of a piano that catches the hammer and prevents it from retouching the strings.
9 a crack or flaw in timber. 
▶exclam.
1 informal, chiefly North American expressing assent or agreement.
2 used by a chess player to announce that the opponent's king has been placed in check. 
PHRASES
in check
1 under control: a way of keeping inflation in check.
2 Chess (of a king) directly attacked by an opponent's piece or pawn; (of a player) having the king in this position. keep a check on monitor: keep a regular check on your score.PHRASAL VERBS check in arrive and register at a hotel or airport: you must check in at least one hour before take-off. check someone in register someone upon their arrival at a hotel or airport: they check in the passengers. check something in (of a passenger) consign baggage to the care of the transport provider with whom they are traveling: I got a taxi to the airport and checked my bags in. 
• deposit a coat, bag, or other item for temporary safekeeping in the cloakroom of a restaurant, theater, etc.: he was checking in his coat on the second floor when people started rushing past him. check into register one's arrival at (a hotel). check something off chiefly North American mark an item on a list, typically with a check mark, to show that it has been dealt with: check off each assignment as you complete it. check on
1 verify, ascertain, or monitor the state or condition of: the doctor had come to check on his patient.
2 another way of saying check up on. check out settle one's hotel bill before leaving. 
• North American informal die. check someone/something out
1 establish the truth or inform oneself about someone or something: they decided to go and check out a local restaurant.
2 (check something out) chiefly North American enter the price of goods in a supermarket into a cash machine for addition and payment by a customer. 
• register something as having been borrowed. check something over inspect or examine something thoroughly. check through inspect or examine thoroughly. check up on investigate in order to establish the truth about or accuracy of.DERIVATIVES checkable adjectiveORIGIN Middle English (originally as used in the game of chess): the noun and exclamation from Old French eschec, from medieval Latin scaccus, via Arabic from Persian šāh ‘king’; the verb from Old French eschequier ‘play chess, put in check.’ The sense ‘stop, restrain, or control’ arose from the use in chess, and led (in the late 17th century) to ‘examine the accuracy of, verify.’
