cheer 
BrE tʃɪə, AmE tʃɪr 

A.  transitive verb 
① (applaud) 向…欢呼 xiàng… huānhū to be loudly cheered 博得热烈的喝彩 
② (comfort) 使振奋 shǐ zhènfèn ; (gladden) 使高兴 shǐ gāoxìng 
B.  intransitive verb «audience» 欢呼 huānhū to cheer for … 为…喝彩 
C.  noun 
① Countable(shout of joy, praise) 欢呼声 huānhū shēng to give a cheer 发出一阵欢呼 to get a big cheer 博得一阵热烈的欢呼声 to give three cheers for … 为…欢呼三声 
② Uncountabledated (happiness) 高兴 gāoxìng (optimism) 振奋 zhènfèn be of good cheer! 振作起来！ 
D.  cheers exclamation 
① (toast) 干杯 gānbēi 
② BrE colloquial (thanks) 谢谢 xièxie 
③ BrE colloquial (goodbye) 再会 zàihuì PHRASAL VERBS cheer on transitive verb [cheer on somebody], [cheer somebody on] 为…加油 wèi… jiāyóu ‹player, team›cheer up 
A.  intransitive verb 振作起来 zhènzuò qilai cheer up! 振作起来！ 
B.  transitive verb [cheer up somebody], [cheer somebody up] 使振作起来 shǐ zhènzuò qilai 
cheer 
CHir

▶verb
1 [no object] shout for joy or in praise or encouragement: she cheered from the sidelines. 
• [with object] praise or encourage with shouts: they cheered his emotional speech 
the cyclists were cheered on by the crowds.
2 [with object] give comfort or support to: he seemed greatly cheered by my arrival. 
• (cheer someone up or cheer up) make or become less miserable: [with object] : I asked her out to lunch to cheer her up 
[no object] : he cheered up at the sight of the food. 
▶noun
1 a shout of encouragement, praise, or joy: a tremendous cheer from the audience. 
• US a brief phrase shouted in unison by a crowd, typically led by cheerleaders, in support of an athletic team.
2 (also good cheer) cheerfulness, optimism, or confidence: an attempt to inject a little cheer into this gloomy season. 
• food and drink provided for a festive occasion: they had partaken heartily of the Christmas cheer. 
PHRASES
of good cheer archaic cheerful; optimistic. three cheers three successive hurrahs shouted to express appreciation or congratulation: three cheers for the winners! what cheer? archaic how are you?ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French chiere ‘face,’ from late Latin cara, from Greek kara ‘head.’ The original sense was ‘face,’ hence ‘expression, mood,’ later specifically ‘a good mood.’
