chill 
BrE tʃɪl, AmE tʃɪl 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(coldness) 寒冷 hánlěng there is a chill in the air 空气中透着几分寒意 
② Countable(illness) 风寒 fēnghán to catch a chill 着凉 
③ Countablefigurative (feeling of fear) 害怕 hàipà to send a chill through [somebody] or down [somebody's] spine 令某人毛骨悚然 to cast a chill over [something] 使某事物蒙上一层阴影 
B.  transitive verb 
① (make cold) 使…感到冷 shǐ… gǎndào lěng ‹person›; 使…变冷 shǐ… biànlěng ‹air›; figurative 使…变得扫兴 shǐ… biàn de sǎoxìng ‹atmosphere›to chill [somebody] to the bone or marrow 使某人感到寒气刺骨 
② figurative (cause to fear) 惊吓 jīngxià to chill [somebody's] or the blood 令某人不寒而栗 
③ Culinary (refrigerate) 使…冷却 shǐ… lěngquè ‹drink›(keep cool) 冷藏 lěngcáng ‹food, melon›
C.  intransitive verb 
① Culinary 冷却 lěngquè 
② colloquial (relax) 放松 fàngsōng 
D.  adjective 
① (cold) 寒冷的 hánlěng de ‹wind, weather›
② figurative (causing fear) 令人恐惧的 lìng rén kǒngjù de ‹warning›(grim) 令人寒心的 lìng rén hánxīn de ‹reminder›PHRASAL VERB chill out intransitive verb colloquial 放松一下 fàngsōng yīxià 
chill 
CHil

▶noun
1 an unpleasant feeling of coldness in the atmosphere, one's surroundings, or the body: there was a chill in the air 
the disease begins abruptly with chills, headaches, and dizziness. 
• a feverish cold: we had better return before you catch a chill. 
• a coldness of manner: a long-term chill in relations could hurt commerce. 
• a depressing influence: his statements have cast a chill over this whole country. 
• a sudden and powerful feeling of fear: a chill ran down my spine 
his words sent a chill of apprehension down my spine.
2 a metal mold or part of a mold, often cooled, designed to ensure rapid or even cooling of metal during casting. 
▶verb [with object]
1 make (someone) cold: I'm chilled to the bone. 
• cool (food or drink), typically in a refrigerator: chill the soup slightly before serving. 
• [no object] (of food or drink) be cooled by chilling: the beers are chilling in the cooler.
2 horrify or frighten (someone): the city was chilled by the violence 
(as adjective chilling) : a chilling account of the prisoners' fate.
3 (also chill out) [no object] informal calm down and relax: I can lean back and chill 
chill out, okay? 
• pass time without a particular aim or purpose, especially with other people: we had a week at home and we chilled out. 
▶adjective
1 chilly: the chill gray dawn 
figurative : the chill winds of public censure.
2 North American informal very relaxed or easygoing: I'm kind of a relaxed, chill guy 
the island is really chill and laid-back. 
PHRASES
chill someone's blood horrify or terrify someone. take the chill off warm slightly.DERIVATIVES chillness 
ˈCHilnəs 
noun. chillsome 
-səm 
adjective ( literary)ORIGIN Old English cele, ciele ‘cold, coldness,’ of Germanic origin; related to cold .
