chip 
BrE tʃɪp, AmE tʃɪp 

A.  noun 
① (fragment) 碎片 suìpiàn chips of wood 木屑 a chip off the old block colloquial 酷似父亲的人 ［尤指男孩］to have a chip on one's shoulder colloquial 心怀怨恨 he's got a chip on his shoulder about not having gone to university 他因为没有上过大学而愤愤不平 
② (mark, flaw) 缺损处 quēsǔnchù the mug has a chip in it 那只马克杯上有个豁口 
③ Culinary BrE 炸薯条 zhá shǔtiáo ; AmE 炸薯片 zhà shǔpiàn 
④ (in gambling) 筹码 chóumǎ to cash in one's chips literal 兑现筹码 figurative colloquial 完蛋 wándàn when the chips are down colloquial 在关键时刻 to have had one's chips BrE colloquial 完蛋 wándàn 
⑤ Computing 芯片 xīnpiàn 
⑥ Sport (in golf, cricket) 切削击球 qiēxiāo jī qiú (in football) 撮球 cuō qiú 
B.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -pp-) 
① (break) 把…碰出缺口 bǎ… pèngchū quēkǒu he chipped my best glass 他把我最好的玻璃杯碰了个缺口 to chip a tooth 崩坏一颗牙 
② (carve) 凿刻 záokè ‹wood, stone›
③ BrE Culinary 把…切成条 bǎ… qiēchéng tiáo 
④ Sport (in golf, cricket) 切削击 qiēxiāo jī ‹ball›(in football) 撮 cuō ‹ball›
C.  intransitive verb(present participle etc. -pp-) 
① (become damaged) «china, glass, gemstone» 碰出缺口 pèngchū quēkǒu ; «paint, veneer» 剥落 bōluò ; «tooth» 崩坏 bēnghuài 
② Sport (in golf, cricket) 切削击球 qiēxiāo jī qiú (in football) 撮球 cuō qiú PHRASAL VERBS chip away 
A.  transitive verb[chip away something, chip something away] 小块小块地弄掉 xiǎokuài xiǎokuài de nòngdiào ‹veneer, paint, plaster›
B.  intransitive verb «veneer, paint, plaster» 不断剥落 bùduàn bōluò chip away at transitive verb[chip away at something] 
① (carve) 不停凿去 bù tíng záoqù the sculptor chipped away at the stone 雕刻家不停地雕琢那块石头 
② figurative (reduce, weaken) 逐步削弱 zhúbù xuēruò ‹power, authority, confidence›chip in intransitive verb BrE colloquial 
① (interrupt) 插话 chāhuà she chipped in with some pertinent remarks 她插的几句话蛮切题的 
② (contribute) 凑钱 còuqián he chipped in with £5 他凑了5英镑 chip off 
A.  transitive verb[chip off something, chip something off] 
① (remove from surface) 使剥落 shǐ bōluò we chipped off the plaster from the wall 我们从墙上铲下灰泥 
② (break off) 碰掉 pèngdiào ‹lump, fragment›he chipped off a piece of his tooth 他崩掉了一块牙 
B.  intransitive verb 小块剥落 xiǎokuài bōluò to chip off; «veneer, paint, plaster» 一片片剥落 
chip 
CHip

▶noun
1 a small piece of something removed in the course of chopping, cutting, or breaking something, especially a hard material such as wood or stone: mulch the shrubs with cedar chips. 
• a hole or mark on a hard object or surface where a small piece has broken of: a chip on his tooth. 
• British wood or woody fiber split into thin strips and used for weaving hats or baskets.
2 North American a thin slice of food made crisp by being fried, baked, or dried and typically eaten as a snack: tortilla chips dipped in salsa 
banana chips. 
• US a small chunk of candy added to desserts or sweet snacks, especially of chocolate. 
• (chips) chiefly British French fries: an order of fish and chips.
3 short for microchip.
4 a counter used in certain gambling games to represent money: a poker chip.
5 (in golf, soccer, and other sports) a short lofted kick or shot with the ball. 
• Tennis a softly sliced return intended to land between the net and the opponent's service line. 
▶verb (chips, chipping, chipped) [with object]
1 cut or break (a small piece) from the edge or surface of a hard material: we had to chip ice off the upper deck. 
• [no object] (of a material or object) break at the edge or on the surface: the paint had chipped off the gate. 
• cut pieces off (a hard material) to alter its shape or break it up: it required a craftsman to chip the blocks of flint to the required shape 
[no object] : she chipped away at the ground outside the door.
2 (in golf, soccer, and other sports) kick or strike (a ball or shot) to produce a short lobbed shot or pass: he chipped a superb shot. 
PHRASES
a chip off the old block informal someone who resembles his or her parent, especially in character. a chip on one's shoulder informal a deeply ingrained grievance or feeling of resentment, often deriving from a sense of inferiority and marked by aggressive behavior. [from an old custom of placing a chip of wood on one's shoulder as a challenge to a rival: if the rival knocked the chip off they were agreeing to fight.] when the chips are down informal when a very serious and difficult situation arises.PHRASAL VERBS chip away gradually and relentlessly make something smaller or weaker: rivals may chip away at one's profits by undercutting product prices. chip in (or chip something in) contribute something as one's share of a joint activity, cost, etc.: the rookie pitcher chipped in with nine saves and five wins 
the council will chip in a further $30,000 a year.ORIGIN Middle English: related to Old English forcippian ‘cut off.’
