circle 
BrE ˈsəːk(ə)l, AmE ˈsərk(ə)l 

A.  noun 
① (geometrical shape) 圆 yuán to square the circle 作与圆面积相等的正方形 figurative 做不可能的事 zuò bù kěnéng de shì 
② (sth. with circular outline) 环状物 huánzhuàngwù a circle of stones 一圈石头 to stand in a circle 站成一圈 a circle of mountain peaks could be seen above the clouds 可以看到山峰环绕，高耸入云 
③ (round flat object) 圆形物 yuánxíngwù to cut out two circles of paper 剪出两个圆纸片 
④ (circular movement) 环形运动 huánxíng yùndòng to move/fly in a circle 转圈/盘旋 to go round or around in circles 在原地兜圈子 figurative 徒劳无功 túláo wú gōng to come full circle «person, situation» 兜了个圈子回到原处 
⑤ circles plural (under eyes) 黑眼圈 hēiyǎnquān 
⑥ BrE Cinema, Theatre 弧形楼座 húxíng lóuzuò 
⑦ (group) 圈子 quānzi have a large circle of friends 交游甚广 in theatrical circles 在戏剧界 to move in fashionable circles 出入时尚界 
B.  transitive verb 
① (move around) 环绕…转圈 huánrào… zhuànquān the moon circles the earth every 28 days 月球每28天绕地球一周 the plane circled the airport before landing 飞机降落前在机场上空盘旋 
② (completely surround) 围绕 wéirào a town circled by hills 群山环绕的城镇 
③ (draw ring around) 围绕…画圈 wéirào… huà quān the spelling mistakes are circled in red ink 拼写错误用红笔圈出 
C.  intransitive verb «bird, plane» 盘旋 pánxuán ; «vehicle, rider, animal» 转圈 zhuànquān to circle around or about [somebody]/[something]; 绕某人/某物转圈 to circle over or above [somebody]/[something]; 在某人/某物上空盘旋 
circle 
ˈsərk(ə)l 
(abbreviation cir. or circ.) 
▶noun
1 a round plane figure whose boundary (the circumference) consists of points equidistant from a fixed point (the center). 
• something in the shape of a circle: the lamp spread a circle of light 
they all sat around in a circle. 
• a dark circular mark below each eye, typically caused by illness or tiredness. 
• a curved upper tier of seats in a theater. See also dress circle.
2 a group of people with shared professions, interests, or acquaintances: she did not normally move in such exalted circles. 
▶verb [with object] move all the way around (someone or something), especially more than once: the two dogs circle each other with hackles raised 
[no object] : we circled around the island. 
• [no object] (circle back) move in a wide loop back toward one's starting point. 
• form a ring around: the monastery was circled by a huge wall. 
• draw a line around: circle the correct answers. 
PHRASES
circle the drain North American informal experience a rapidly worsening situation apparently leading to failure or disaster: what do you do when your business starts to circle the drain? circle the wagons North American informal (of a group) unite in defense of a common interest. [with reference to the defensive position of a wagon train under attack.] come (or turn) full circle return to a past position or situation, especially in a way considered to be inevitable. go around (or around and around) in circles informal do something for a long time without achieving anything but purposeless repetition: the discussion went around and around in circles. run around in circles informal be fussily busy with little result. the wheel has turned (or come) full circle the situation has returned to what it was in the past, as if completing a cycle. [with reference to Shakespeare's King Lear, by association with the wheel fabled to be turned by Fortune and representing mutability.]ORIGIN Old English, from Old French cercle, from Latin circulus ‘small ring,’ diminutive of circus ‘ring.’
