claim 
BrE kleɪm, AmE kleɪm 
A. transitive verb 
① (assert right to) 要求…的所有权 yāoqiú… de suǒyǒuquán ‹land, property, throne›; 认领 rènlǐng ‹lost property›she claimed ownership of the land 她要求得到这块土地的所有权 each student claimed a desk in the new classroom 在新教室里每个学生拥有一张课桌 
② (assert) 声称 shēngchēng both sides are claiming victory 双方均宣称获胜 I can claim some credit for the success of the project 我可以说这个项目的成功有我一份贡献 she claims (that) she is related to the Queen 她声称跟女王沾亲带故 some amazing things have been claimed for this new drug 这种新药据称有奇效 
③ (using insurance) «policyholder» 凭保险单索取 píng bǎoxiǎndān suǒqǔ ‹compensation›
④ Administration 向政府申请 xiàng zhèngfǔ shēnqǐng ‹allowance, benefi›
⑤ (in industrial relations) «workers, trade union» 向资方要求 xiàng zīfāng yāoqiú ‹pay rise›the workers are claiming a 10% pay increase 工人们要求10％的加薪 
⑥ (request refund of) 申请报销 shēnqǐng bàoxiāo ‹expenses›
⑦ (require) 要求 yāoqiú ‹energies, attention›most of my free time is claimed by the community work 我的大部分空闲时间都花在社区工作上了 the causes claiming one's sympathies 值得支持的事业 
⑧ (win) 获得 huòdé ‹victory›she has finally claimed a place on the team 她终于成了该队的一员 
⑨ (cause death of) «disaster, war» 造成…的死亡 zàochéng… de sǐwáng ‹victims›the hurricane has claimed hundreds of lives 飓风夺去了数百人的生命 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (using insurance) 索赔 suǒpéi to claim for damages; «policyholder» 索取损害赔偿金 
② Administration 向政府申请救济 xiàng zhèngfǔ shēnqǐng jiùjì to claim for [somebody]/[something]; 为某人/某事物申请救济 
C.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(right) 所有权 suǒyǒuquán a claim on [something]; 对…的要求 ‹time, funds, attention›to lay claim to [something] 提出对…的所有权 ‹land, property, throne, title›a claim to fame 出名的事由 to assert/renounce one's claim to the throne 坚持/放弃获得王位的权利 you have no claim on or to my sympathy 你没法博得我的同情 
② Countable(assertion) 声称 shēngchēng to make a claim 作出断言 to make claims for [somebody]/[something] 渲染某人/某事物 nobody believed his claim to be innocent 他自称清白，可谁也不相信 I lay no claim to being an expert 我不以专家自居 
③ Countable(using insurance) 索赔 suǒpéi to make or lodge or put in a claim (for [something]) （对…）提出索赔 ‹damages›
④ CountableAdministration 政府救济申请 zhèngfǔ jiùjì shēnqǐng a claim for [something]; 对…的申请 ‹allowance, benefit›to make or put in a claim 提出救济申请 
⑤ Countable(in industrial relations) [对资方提出的] 要求 yāoqiú to make a wage claim 提出加薪的要求 the workers have put in a claim for union recognition 工人们要求资方承认工会 PHRASAL VERB claim back transitive verb [claim something back, claim back something] 要求退还 yāoqiú tuìhuán ‹expenses, tax›you can claim your money back if the goods are damaged 如货物受损，可要求退款 to claim [something] back on the insurance 根据保险合同要求赔偿某物 
claim 
▶verb
1 Davies claimed that she was lying: assert, declare, profess, maintain, state, hold, affirm, avow; argue, contend, allege; formal aver.
2 no one claimed the items: lay claim to, assert ownership of, formally request.
3 you can claim compensation: request, ask for, apply for; demand, exact.
4 the fire claimed four lives: take, result in the loss of, cause the loss of.
▶noun
1 her claim that she was unaware of the problem: assertion, declaration, profession, affirmation, avowal, protestation; contention, allegation.
2 a claim for damages: request, application; demand, petition.
3 we have first claim on their assets: entitlement to, title to, right to.
