clash 
BrE klaʃ, AmE klæʃ 

A.  intransitive verb 
① (meet and fight, coincide inconveniently) 冲突 chōngtū police clashed with demonstrators 警察与示威者发生了冲突 your party clashes with my sister's wedding 你的聚会和我姐姐的婚礼在时间上有冲突 
② figurative (disagree, be in conflict) 有分歧 yǒu fēnqí to clash (with [somebody]) on or over [something]; （与某人）在某事物上有分歧 to clash with [something]; 与某事物相抵触 
③ (not match) «colours, designs, dresses» 不协调 bù xiétiáo to clash with [something]; 与某物不相配 
④ (strike together) «swords» 撞击发出刺耳响声 zhuàngjī fāchū cì'ěr xiǎngshēng ; «cymbals» 哐当擦响 kuāngdāng cāxiǎng 
B.  transitive verb 使撞击发出刺耳响声 shǐ zhuàngjī fāchū cì'ěr xiǎngshēng ‹swords›; 哐当擦响 kuāngdāng cāxiǎng ‹cymbals›
C.  noun 
① (confrontation) (inconvenient coincidence) 冲突 chōngtū a clash between A and B A和B之间的冲突 there's a clash of meetings 几次会议在时间上有冲突 
② (disagreement) 争论 zhēnglùn a clash with [somebody] (on or over [something]) （在某事物上）与某人的分歧 
③ (incompatibility) 差异 chāyì a clash of beliefs/cultures 信仰/文化的冲突 a personality clash 个性冲突 
④ (mismatch) 不协调 bù xiétiáo a clash of colours 色彩的不搭配 
⑤ (noise) 撞击声 zhuàngjī shēng a clash of cymbals 铙钹的哐当声 
clash 
klaSH

▶noun
1 a violent confrontation: there have been minor clashes with security forces. 
• an incompatibility leading to disagreement: a personality clash.
2 a mismatch of colors: a clash of tweeds and a striped shirt. 
• an inconvenient coincidence of the timing of events or activities: it is hoped that clashes of dates will be avoided.
3 a loud jarring sound made by or resembling that made by metal objects being struck together: a clash of cymbals. 
▶verb
1 [no object] meet and come into violent conflict: protesters demanding self-rule clashed with police. 
• have a forceful disagreement: Clarke has frequently clashed with his colleagues. 
• be incompatible or at odds: his thriftiness clashed with Ross's largesse.
2 [no object] (of colors) appear discordant or ugly when placed close to each other: (as adjective clashing) : suits in clashing colors. 
• inconveniently occur at the same time: the date of the wedding clashes with Sean's graduation.
3 [with object] strike (cymbals) together, producing a loud discordant sound. DERIVATIVES clasher nounORIGIN early 16th century: imitative.
