class 
BrE klɑːs, AmE klæs 
A. noun 
① Countable(category) 类别 lèibié (grade) 等级 děngjí to be in a class of one's own 出类拔萃 to be in a different class from … 和…不属于同一类 he's not in the same class as the other players 他比其他运动员逊色多了 
② Countable and uncountableSociology (group) 阶级 jiējí (system) 等级制度 děngjí zhìdù the upper/middle/working class(es) 上层/中产/工人阶级 
③ CountableSchool, University (group of students) 班级 bānjí (lesson) 课 kè in class 在课堂上 
④ Countable AmE School, University (year group) 同届毕业生 tóngjiè bìyèshēng the class of 72 72届毕业生 
⑤ Uncountablecolloquial (elegance) 优雅 yōuyǎ to add a touch of class to [something] 给某事物增添几分雅致 
⑥ CountableTransport 等级 děngjí to travel first/second class 乘头等舱/二等舱旅行 
⑦ Countable BrE University (of degree) 学位等级 xuéwèi děngjí a first-/second-class degree 一级/二级优等学位 
⑧ CountableBiology 纲 gāng 
B.  transitive verb 将…归类 jiāng… guīlèi ‹person, specimen, book›to class [something]/[somebody] as/among/with [something]; 将某事物/某人归入某类别 
C.  adjective colloquial (excellent) 出类拔萃的 chū lèi bá cuì de ‹athlete, horse›she's a real class act 她真是魅力非凡 
class 
▶noun
1 a hotel of the first class: category, grade, rating, classification, group, grouping.
2 a new class of heart drug: kind, sort, type, variety, genre, brand; species, genus, breed, strain, stripe.
3 the middle class: social division, social stratum, rank, level, echelon, group, grouping, income group; social status; dated estate; archaic condition.
4 a math class: lesson, period; seminar, tutorial, workshop, study group.
5 informal a woman of class: style, stylishness, elegance, chic, sophistication, taste, refinement, quality, excellence.
▶verb the 12-seater is classed as a commercial vehicle: classify, categorize, group, grade; order, sort, codify; bracket, designate, label, pigeonhole.
▶adjective informal a class player: classy, decent, gracious, respectable, noble.REFLECTIONS Michael Dirdaclass Class —meaning socioeconomic status—now carries loads of connotation, but often very little meaning. How does one determine a person's 'class'? Nowadays, millionaires regard themselves as working stiffs or, at best, as middle class. A salaried employee earning $100,000 a year feels poor if all his neighbors make twice that just from their stock portfolios. In other words, there are no clear markers. Should ghetto drug-lords with shiny BMWs be viewed as members of the 'underclass'? Is the owner of a Kwik-E-Mart who pays two college kids to run the register and stock the shelves in the same class as an autoworker at the Ford assembly plant? What if the small-time entrepreneur takes home only $30,000 a year, while the grunt on the line earns $60,000? Nobody, of course, ever admits to being upper class. People with private jets will quietly murmur, after a self-deprecating smile, “Oh, we're just comfortable,” or even “We're getting by.” In summarizing people's economic status, just say what you think: He's rich, she's poor. Better yet, describe the actual conditions of life: The Smiths reside in a tract house that cost $40,000, and they can barely afford the mortgage.Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
