clean 
BrE kliːn, AmE klin 

A.  adjective 
① (not dirty) 干净的 gānjìng de clean air 清洁的空气 a clean wound 未感染的伤口 to lick one's plate clean literal 把盘子舔干净 figurative 吃光盘中的食物 chīguāng pán zhòng de shíwù my hands are clean literal 我的手很干净 figurative 我是清白的 wǒ shì qīngbái de 
② (attentive to hygiene) 爱干净的 ài gānjìng de it's not very clean to drink out of somebody else's glass 用别人的杯子喝不太卫生 
③ Ecology 无污染的 wúwūrǎn de ‹energy›a clean fuel 清洁燃料 
④ (not marked) 空白的 kòngbái de ‹sheet of paper, blackboard›
⑤ (not obscene) 不下流的 bù xiàliú de ‹joke, comedian, act›the evening was all good clean fun 这台晚会文明有趣 
⑥ (unsullied) 清白的 qīngbái de a clean driving licence 无违章记录的驾照 I've checked him out: he's clean colloquial 我已经查过他了，他没有前科 
⑦ slang (without illicit property) 没有违禁品的 méiyǒu wéijìnpǐn de I've searched him, and he's clean 我搜了他的身，他没有携带违禁品 
⑧ slang (no longer addicted) 不再吸毒的 bù zài xīdú de 
⑨ Sport (following rules) 守规则的 shǒu guīzé de a clean tackle 正当的阻截 
⑩ (done smoothly and skilfully) 干净利落的 gānjìng lìluo de ‹hit, blow, movement›
⑪ (with smooth edge) 边缘平整的 biānyuán píngzhěng de ‹cut, fracture›a clean break Medicine 整齐的骨折 figurative 彻底的决裂 chèdǐ de juéliè 
⑫ (elegant, neat) 流畅匀称的 liúchàng yúnchèn de ‹curves, shape, profile›the car's clean lines 那辆车流畅的线条 
B.  noun 清扫 qīngsǎo to give [something] a clean; 清扫某物 to give the room a clean 打扫房间 
C.  adverb 完全地 wánquán de to come clean (with [somebody]) (about [something]) （向某人）和盘托出（某事） I've got to come clean with you: I was the one who told him 我得跟你说实话：是我告诉他的 the thief got clean away colloquial 小偷跑得没影了 I'd clean forgotten about her birthday colloquial 我把她的生日忘得一干二净 
D.  transitive verb 
① (remove dirt from) 把…弄干净 bǎ… nòng gānjìng to clean the room 打扫房间 to clean the blackboard 擦黑板 to clean oneself 把身体洗干净 bǎ shēntǐ xǐ gānjìng she cleaned the dirt from her fingernails 她除掉了指甲里的污垢 to have a suit (dry-)cleaned 把西服拿去（干）洗 
② Culinary «cook» 清除…的内脏 qīngchú… de nèizàng ‹chicken, fish›
E.  intransitive verb 
① (do housework) 打扫 dǎsǎo 
② (become clean) 变干净 biàn gānjìng these brass handles don't clean very easily 这些黄铜把手不容易弄干净 PHRASAL VERBS clean down transitive verb [clean something down, clean down something] 把…清扫干净 bǎ… qīngsǎo gānjìng to clean down the walls 把墙壁擦洗干净 clean off 
A.  transitive verb[clean something off, clean off something] 清除 qīngchú ‹writing, marks, graffiti›I've got to clean the mud off the car 我得把车上的泥擦掉 
B.  intransitive verb «stain» 被除掉 bèi chúdiào this mark won't clean off 这块污渍擦不掉 clean out transitive verb 
① [clean something out, clean out something] (cleanse thoroughly) 把…的内部清扫干净 bǎ… de nèibù qīngsǎo gānjìng ‹oven, toilet›you need to clean out your ears! 你该掏一下耳朵了！ 
② [clean somebody out, clean out somebody] colloquial (leave penniless) 把…的钱花光 bǎ… de qián huā guāng ‹person›the new car's cleaned me out of all my savings 这辆新车花光了我的全部积蓄 
③ [clean somebody/something out, clean out somebody/something] colloquial (rob) «thief, swindler» 把…洗劫一空 bǎ… xǐjié yī kōng ‹person, house›the burglars cleaned her out of all her jewellery 窃贼把她的珠宝洗劫一空 clean up 
A.  [clean something up, clean up something] transitive verb 
① (get rid of) 清除 qīngchú ‹mess, remains›to clean the rubbish up off or from the floor 把地板上的垃圾清走 
② (remove crime, corruption from) 清理整顿 qīnglǐ zhěngdùn ‹city, streets, local government›
③ colloquial (make less obscene, violent) 使…变得纯洁 shǐ… biàn de chúnjié ‹TV, programme›to clean up one's act literal «comedian» 使表演文雅 figurative «person» 洁身自好 jié shēn zì hào 
B.  [clean somebody/something up, clean up somebody/something] transitive verb (remove dirt from) 把…弄干净 bǎ… nòng gānjìng to clean up the kitchen 把厨房打扫干净 to clean oneself up 把身体洗干净 bǎ shēntǐ xǐ gānjìng 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (remove dirt) 打扫干净 dǎsǎo gānjìng 
② (tidy up) 整理 zhěnglǐ to clean up after [somebody]; 跟在某人后面收拾 
③ (wash oneself) 把身体洗干净 bǎ shēntǐ xǐ gānjìng 
④ colloquial (make profit) «entrepreneur, gambler, film» 赚大钱 zhuàn dàqián to clean up on [something]; 因…赚大钱 ‹deal, sale›
clean 
klēn

▶adjective
1 free from dirt, marks, or stains: the room was spotlessly clean 
keep the wound clean. 
• having been washed since last worn or used: a clean blouse. 
• [attributive] (of paper) not yet marked by writing or drawing: he copied the directions onto a clean sheet of paper. 
• (of a person) attentive to personal hygiene: by nature he was clean and neat. 
• free from pollutants or unpleasant substances: we will create a cleaner, safer environment. 
• relating to a diet consisting of unprocessed, unrefined, and nutrient-rich food, typically eaten as small meals throughout the day: I'm amazed at how much energy clean eating gives me 
you have to eat clean foods to change your physique. 
• free from or producing relatively little radioactive contamination.
2 morally uncontaminated; pure; innocent: clean living. 
• not sexually offensive or obscene: it's all good clean fun 
even when clean, his verses are very funny. 
• showing or having no record of offenses or crimes: a clean driving license is essential for the job. 
• played or done according to the rules: it was a good clean fight. 
• [predicative] informal not possessing or containing anything illegal, especially drugs or stolen goods: I searched him and his luggage, and he was clean. 
• [predicative] informal (of a person) not taking or having taken drugs or alcohol. 
• free from ceremonial defilement, according to Mosaic Law and similar religious codes.
3 free from irregularities; having a smooth edge or surface: a clean fracture of the leg. 
• having a simple, well-defined, and pleasing shape: the clean lines and pared-down planes of modernism. 
• (of an action) smoothly and skillfully done: I still hadn't made a clean takeoff. 
• (of a taste, sound, or smell) giving a clear and distinctive impression to the senses; sharp and fresh: clean, fresh, natural flavors. 
• (of timber) free from knots. 
▶adverb
1 so as to be free from dirt, marks, or unwanted matter: the room had been washed clean. 
• in a way that involves the consumption of unprocessed, unrefined, and nutrient-rich food: plain oatmeal is a staple for anyone who's eating clean.
2 informal used to emphasize the completeness of a reported action, condition, or experience: he was knocked clean off his feet 
I clean forgot her birthday. 
▶verb [with object] make (something or someone) free of dirt, marks, or mess, especially by washing, wiping, or brushing: clean your teeth properly after meals 
chair covers should be easy to clean 
we cleaned Uncle Jim up and made him presentable 
[no object] : he always expected other people to clean up after him 
(as noun cleaning) : Anne will help with the cleaning. 
• remove the innards of (fish or poultry) prior to cooking. 
PHRASES
(as) clean as a whistle see whistle. clean bill of health see bill of health. clean someone's clock informal give someone a beating: he went wild and cleaned everybody's clock down there in the dugout. 
• defeat or surpass someone decisively. clean house do housework. 
• eliminate corruption or inefficiency: unless our organization cleans house, it will be difficult to raise funds. clean one's plate eat up all the food put on one's plate. a clean sweep
1 the removal of all unwanted people or things in order to start afresh: the new leaders wanted to make a clean sweep of the discredited old order.
2 the winning of all of a group of similar or related competitions, events, or matches: he was in reach of the nomination after a clean sweep of Tuesday's primaries. clean up one's act informal begin to behave in a better way, especially by giving up alcohol, drugs, or illegal activities: the casino industry is bent on cleaning up its act. come clean informal be completely honest; keep nothing hidden: the company has refused to come clean about its pollution record. have clean hands be uninvolved and blameless with regard to an immoral act: no one involved in the conflict has clean hands. keep one's hands clean not involve oneself in an immoral act. keep one's nose clean see nose. make a clean breast of something (or make a clean breast of it) confess fully one's mistakes or wrongdoings. make a clean job of something informal do something thoroughly. wipe the slate clean see wipe. PHRASAL VERBS clean someone out informal use up or take all someone's money: they were cleaned out by the Englishman at the baccarat table. clean up 
• make things or an area clean or neat: he was in the kitchen, cleaning up. 
• informal make a substantial gain or profit. 
• win all the prizes available in a sporting competition or series of events: the Germans cleaned up at Wimbledon. clean something up restore order or morality to: the police chief was given the job of cleaning up a notorious district.DERIVATIVES cleanable 
ˈklēnəb(ə)l 
adjective. cleanish adjective. cleanness 
ˈklēnnəs 
nounORIGIN Old English clǣne; related to Dutch and German klein ‘small.’
