clear 
BrE klɪə, AmE ˈklɪr 
A. adjective 
① (transparent) 透明的 tòumíng de ‹glass, plastic, varnish›; 清澈的 qīngchè de ‹water, river, lake›
② (free from cloud, mist, rain) 晴朗的 qínglǎng de ‹sky, night, day›
③ (pure) 清脆的 qīngcuì de ‹sound, tone, voice›
④ (easy to understand) 清楚的 qīngchu de ‹explanation, signal, style›she gave the police a clear account of what happened 她向警察清楚地讲述了发生的事情 is that clear? 明白吗？ to get [something] clear 明确某事物 to make oneself clear 把自己的意思表达清楚 to make [something] clear (to [somebody]) （向某人）讲清楚某事物 
⑤ (not confused) 清晰的 qīngxī de ‹reasoning, thought, idea›; 清醒的 qīngxǐng de ‹mind›; 思维清晰的 sīwéi qīngxī de ‹person, thinker›to have a clear picture in one's mind of [something] 对某事物了如指掌 to keep a clear head 保持头脑清醒 he's clear about what the job entails 他明白这份工作意味着什么 
⑥ (pure, intense) 纯净的 chúnjìng de ‹colour›clear green 纯绿色 
⑦ (distinct) 清晰的 qīngxī de ‹photograph, sound, print, reflection›; 声音清晰的 shēngyīn qīngxī de ‹speaker›I didn't get a clear look at the car 我没有看清楚那辆车 
⑧ (obvious) 明显的 míngxiǎn de it's a clear case of fraud 这是一起明显的诈骗案 it's clear that they don't want to come 显然他们不想来 it is quite clear to me that she is in pain 我很清楚地感觉到她身处痛苦中 
⑨ (free of obstructions) 无遮挡的 wúzhēdǎng de ‹view›; 畅通无阻的 chàngtōng wúzǔ de ‹road, pipe›; 收拾干净的 shōushi gānjìng de ‹surface›the path is clear of snow 这条小路上没有积雪 we're keeping this space clear for the new bookcase 我们留着这个地方放新书柜 
⑩ (unblemished) 光洁的 guāngjié de ‹skin, complexion›
⑪ Culinary 稀薄的 xībó de 
⑫ Medicine to be clear «X-ray, scan» 未见异常 wèi jiàn yìcháng 
⑬ (free of sth. undesirable) 免除的 miǎnchú de clear of [something]; 摆脱某事物的 they were clear of debt at last 他们终于还清了债务 you are now clear of all suspicion 你现在已经排除所有嫌疑了 in the clear (free from danger) 无危险的 (free from suspicion) 无嫌疑的 (free to do sth.) 无阻碍的 she was very ill for a few days, but she's in the clear now 她有几天病得很厉害，但现在已经脱离危险了 they've dropped the case: you're in the clear 他们已经撤诉了，你现在没嫌疑了 
⑭ (free from engagements) 空闲的 kòngxián de ‹day, week, calendar›my diary for June is completely clear 我整个6月份都有空 I'm keeping next Saturday clear for my Christmas shopping 我留出下周六来为圣诞节购物 
⑮ (whole) 完整的 wánzhěng de ‹day, month›that gives them a clear week to carry out the repairs 这让他们有整整一周时间来维修 
⑯ Finance (net) 净的 jìng de a clear profit/amount 净利/净值 
⑰ predicative Finance (paid off) to be clear «account» 未透支 wèi tòuzhī 
⑱ (not touching) 不接触的 bù jiēchù de keep going: you're well clear 继续走，不会碰到的 park the car about 25 cm clear of the kerb 把车停在离路缘大约25厘米的地方 they were clear of London 他们离开了伦敦 
B.  adverb 
① 离开 líkāi stand clear (of the doors)! 站开（别站在门口）！ to jump or leap clear (of [something]) (jump out (of)) 跳离（某物） (take avoiding action (from)) 避开（某事物） she leapt clear of the burning car 她从燃烧的汽车中跳了出来 to steer or keep or stay clear of [somebody]/[something] 避开某人/某物 her doctor advised her to steer clear of fattening foods 医生建议她不要吃使人发胖的食物 I prefer to stay clear of the town centre during the rush hour 我不愿意在交通高峰期去市中心 to get clear of [something] 摆脱 ‹traffic jam, exams›
② (completely) 完全 wánquán he got clear away 他逃得无影无踪 
C.  transitive verb 
① (remove) 清除 qīngchú she cleared the leaves from the path 她清扫掉小路上的树叶 can you clear the papers off the desk? 你能把桌上的文件都拿走吗？ to clear [something] out of the way (from surface) 把某物拿开 the rainforest is being cleared at an alarming rate 砍伐雨林的速度惊人 his confident reply cleared all the doubts from her mind 他自信的回答消除了她心中所有的疑虑 
② (free from obstruction, blemishes) 清理 qīnglǐ to clear the drains 疏通下水道 to clear the road of snow 清扫路上积雪 to clear the way (for [somebody]/[something]) literal, figurative （为某人/某事物）扫清道路 clear the way: we need to get through! 让开，我们要过去！ the police went ahead to clear the way for the ambulance 警察在前面为救护车开道 to clear one's throat 清嗓子 this cream will clear your complexion 这种乳霜可以使你面部光洁 the aim is to clear your mind of painful memories 目的是让你忘掉那些痛苦的记忆 
③ (create) 清理出 qīnglǐ chū ‹space›she cleared a path through the undergrowth 她在灌木丛中开出一条小路来 she cleared her way through the crowd of onlookers 她从围观的人群中挤了过去 
④ (cause to leave a place) 使离开 shǐ líkāi the troops were called in to clear the crowds 军队被调来驱散人群 the rain cleared the sunbathers from the beach 这场雨把海滩上晒日光浴的人都淋跑了 
⑤ (cause people to leave) 遣散…的人员 qiǎnsàn… de rén yuán the fire alarm cleared the building 听到火警后，人们都撤离了大楼 the police cleared the stadium of spectators 警察疏散了体育馆里的观众 
⑥ (achieve mental clarity) 使变清醒 shǐ biàn qīngxǐng to clear one's head or mind; 使头脑清醒 
⑦ Computing 删除…中的数据 shānchú… zhòng de shùjù ‹memory, computer, disk›; 删除 shānchú ‹data, figures, picture›
⑧ (pay off) 清偿 qīngcháng ‹debt, loan›; 结清 jiéqīng ‹account›
⑨ (deal with) 处理 chǔlǐ ‹work, goods, stock›we were faced with a huge backlog of work to clear 我们有一大堆积压的工作要处理 to be reduced to clear 清仓甩卖 
⑩ (free from blame) 使无罪 shǐ wúzuì you have been cleared of all charges 对你的所有指控都已撤销 to be cleared of suspicion 被排除嫌疑 to clear [somebody's] name or reputation 恢复某人的清白名誉 
⑪ (authorize) 批准…做机密工作 pīzhǔn… zuò jīmì gōngzuò ‹person›she's been cleared to consult these classified documents 她已经获准查阅这些机密文件 
⑫ (approve, give permission for) 批准 pīzhǔn (gain approval, get permission for) 使获得批准 shǐ huòdé pīzhǔn the report has to be cleared by the censors 这篇报道必须经审查员审批 the plane has been cleared for take-off 飞机已得到起飞许可 the project has been cleared with head office 项目已经获得总部批准 have you cleared these goods for export? 你这些货物已经获准出口了吗？ 
⑬ (satisfy requirements of) 合乎…要求 héhū… yāoqiú to clear customs «person, goods, baggage» 通关 
⑭ (freshen) 使面目一新 shǐ miànmù yī xīn to clear the air «storm» 使空气清新 figurative (improve a difficult situation) 改善困境 gǎishàn kùnjìng (improve a tense situation) 缓解紧张局势 huǎnjiě jǐnzhāng júshì 
⑮ (disperse) 驱散 qūsàn ‹mist, smoke, gas, smell›
⑯ (clarify) 澄清 chéngqīng ‹wine, beer›
⑰ (pass without touching) 越过 yuèguò ‹fence, wall, hurdle›; 通过 tōngguò ‹gate, bridge, doorway›; 通过时不接触 tōngguò shí bù jiēchù ‹bottom, ceiling, rock›the winner cleared two metres 获胜选手跳过了2米 the van only just cleared the gatepost 那辆货车险些撞上门柱 
⑱ Sport (in football, rugby) 大脚踢开…解围 dà jiǎo tīkāi… jiěwéi ‹ball›(in hockey) 把…击出己方球门区 bǎ… jīchū jǐfāng qiúménqū ‹ball›
⑲ Finance (pass through clearing house) 结算 jiésuàn ‹cheque›
⑳ (make) 净赚 jìngzhuàn ‹amount, profit›he's clearing more than £20,000 a year 他一年净赚2万多英镑 
D.  intransitive verb 
① (become transparent) «window, mirror» 变透明 biàn tòumíng ; «water, solution, wine» 变清澈 biàn qīngchè 
② (become free from cloud, mist, rain) «sky, weather» 转晴 zhuǎnqíng 
③ (become free from smoke, pollution, smell) «air» 变清新 biàn qīngxīn ; «room» 变得空气清新 biàn de kōngqì qīngxīn 
④ (disperse) «mist, gas, smoke, smell» 消散 xiāosàn 
⑤ (become free from spots, rash) «skin, face» 变光洁 biàn guāngjié 
⑥ (disappear from skin) «spots, acne, rash» 消失 xiāoshī 
⑦ (look happier) 变明朗 biàn mínglǎng his face/brow cleared when I told him the good news 我告诉他这个好消息时，他面露喜色/眉头舒展开来 
⑧ Finance «cheque» 结算 jiésuàn 
E.  noun in clear (without cryptographic protection) 用普通文字 yòng pǔtōng wénzì PHRASAL VERBS clear away A. transitive verb[clear something away, clear away something] 
① (remove) 清除 qīngchú clear your toys away 把你的玩具收走 we cleared the snow away from the doorstep 我们扫掉了门口台阶上的积雪 
② (disperse) 驱散 qūsàn ‹mist, smoke, gas, smell›
B.  intransitive verb (after meal) 收拾餐桌 shōushi cānzhuō clear off A. intransitive verb colloquial (go away) 走开 zǒukāi clear off! can't you see I'm busy? 走开！你没看见我正忙着吗？ they cleared off without paying 他们没付钱就溜掉了 
B.  transitive verb[clear off something] 
① colloquial (get off) 从…走开 cóng… zǒukāi ‹land, property›
② AmE (remove dishes from) 收拾 shōushi ‹table›clear out A. transitive verb[clear something out, clear out something] 
① (tidy) 整理 zhěnglǐ ‹cupboard, drawer, room›
② (empty) 清空 qīngkōng ‹cupboard, drawer, room›
③ (throw away) 清理掉 qīnglǐ diào ‹rubbish, old clothes, toys›
B.  intransitive verb colloquial (get out) 离开 líkāi he cleared out before the police arrived 他在警察到来前溜掉了 clear out of here! 从这儿滚出去！ clear up A. transitive verb 
① (get rid of, tidy away) 清理掉 qīnglǐ diào ‹rubbish, books, dishes›
② (make tidy) 清理 qīnglǐ ‹desk, room, street, beach›
③ (solve) 解开 jiěkāi ‹mystery, puzzle›
④ (resolve) 解决 jiějué ‹problem, issue›; 消除 xiāochú ‹misunderstanding, disagreement›; 解释 jiěshì ‹point, subject›
⑤ (cure) «treatment, substance, medicine» 治愈 zhìyù ‹spots, infection, illness›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (tidy up) 收拾 shōushi to clear up after [somebody]; 跟在某人后面收拾 they always clear up after themselves 他们总是随时收拾 
② (improve) «weather» 转晴 zhuǎnqíng 
③ (be cured) «spots» 消失 xiāoshī ; «infection, illness» 治愈 zhìyù the cold will clear up in a few days 感冒过几天就会好的 
clear 
▶adjective
1 clear instructions: understandable, comprehensible, intelligible, plain, uncomplicated, explicit, lucid, coherent, simple, straightforward, unambiguous, clear-cut, crystal clear; formal perspicuous. ANTONYMS vague.
2 a clear case of harassment: obvious, evident, plain, crystal clear; sure, definite, unmistakable, manifest, indisputable, patent, incontrovertible, irrefutable, beyond doubt, beyond question; palpable, visible, discernible, conspicuous, overt, blatant, glaring; as plain as day, as plain as the nose on one's face. ANTONYMS vague, possible.
3 clear water: transparent, limpid, pellucid, translucent, crystal clear; unclouded. ANTONYMS murky, opaque.
4 a clear blue sky: bright, cloudless, unclouded, without a cloud in the sky. ANTONYMS cloudy.
5 her clear complexion: unblemished, spot-free. ANTONYMS spotty, pimply.
6 Rosa's clear voice: distinct, bell-like, as clear as a bell. ANTONYMS muffled.
7 the road was clear 
a clear view: unobstructed, unblocked, passable, unrestricted, open, unhindered. ANTONYMS limited, obstructed.
8 a clear conscience: untroubled, undisturbed, unperturbed, unconcerned, having no qualms; peaceful, at peace, tranquil, serene, calm, easy. ANTONYMS guilty.
▶adverb
1 stand clear of the doors: away from, apart from, at a (safe) distance from, out of contact with.
2 Tommy's voice came loud and clear: distinctly, clearly, as clear as a bell, plainly, audibly.
3 he has time to get clear away: completely, entirely, fully, wholly, totally, utterly; informal clean.
▶verb
1 the sky cleared briefly: brighten (up), lighten, clear up, become bright/brighter, become light/lighter, become sunny.
2 the drizzle had cleared: disappear, go away, end; peter out, fade, wear off, decrease, lessen, diminish.
3 together they cleared the table: empty, unload, unburden, strip.
4 clearing drains: unblock, unstop.
5 staff cleared the building: evacuate, empty; leave.
6 Karen cleared the dirty dishes: remove, take away, carry away, tidy up.
7 I cleared the bar on my first attempt: go over, pass over, sail over; jump (over), vault (over), leap (over), hurdle.
8 he was cleared by an appeals court: acquit, declare innocent, find not guilty; absolve, exonerate; informal let off (the hook); formal exculpate.
9 I was cleared to work on the atomic project: authorize, give permission, permit, allow, pass, accept, endorse, license, sanction, give approval, give consent; informal OK, give the OK, give the thumbs up, give the green light, give the go-ahead.
10 I cleared $50,000 profit: net, make/realize a profit of, take home, pocket; gain, earn, make, get, bring in, pull in.
PHRASES
clear out
1 informal we were told to clear out immediately. See leave1 (sense 1).
2 we cleared out the junk room: empty (out); tidy (up), declutter, clean up, clear up.
3 clear out the old equipment: get rid of, throw out/away, discard, dispose of, dump, scrap, jettison; informal chuck (out), deep-six, ditch, trash. clear up
1 I hope it clears up before the party. See clear (sense
1 of the verb).
2 we've cleared up the problem: solve, resolve, straighten out, find an/the answer to; get to the bottom of, explain; informal crack, figure out.
