click 
BrE klɪk, AmE klɪk 

A.  intransitive verb 
① (make sound) 发出咔嗒声 fāchū kādā shēng the photographers were clicking away 摄影师们咔嚓咔嚓拍个不停 
② colloquial (become clear) 变清楚 biàn qīngchu suddenly something clicked 突然顿悟 
③ colloquial (strike a rapport) 成为朋友 chéngwéi péngyou we just clicked (as friends) 我们一见如故 (sexually) 我们一见钟情 
④ colloquial (work well together) 合作良好 hézuò liánghǎo the team don't seem to have clicked yet 这个团队似乎还没磨合好 
⑤ (work out perfectly) 进展顺利 jìnzhǎn shùnlì everything clicked for them colloquial 他们一切顺利 
⑥ Computing 点击 diǎnjī to click on [something] 点击某处 
B.  transitive verb (make sound with) 使发出咔嗒声 shǐ fāchū kādā shēng to click one's fingers 打响指 to click one's tongue 咂舌 to click one's heels 啪地立正 to click [something] open/shut 咔嗒一声打开/合上某物 
C.  noun 
① (sound) 咔嗒声 kādā shēng ; (of tongues) 咂舌声 zāshé shēng with a click of her fingers 随着她的一声响指 
② Computing 点击 diǎnjī 
click 
klik

▶noun a short, sharp sound as of a switch being operated or of two hard objects coming quickly into contact: she heard the click of the door. 
• Phonetics an ingressive consonantal stop produced by sudden withdrawal of the tongue from the soft palate, front teeth, or back teeth and hard palate, occurring in some southern African and other languages. 
• Computing an act of pressing a button on a mouse or similar device. 
▶verb
1 make or cause to make a short, sharp sound: [no object] : the key clicked in the lock and the door opened 
[with object] : she clicked off the light 
Martha clicked her tongue 
(as adjective clicking) : the clicking cameras outside the church. 
• Computing select an item in a graphical user interface by pressing a button on a mouse: [no object] : click on the illustration for a larger version 
[with object] : click the left mouse button twice.
2 [no object] informal become suddenly clear or understandable: finally it clicked what all the fuss had been about. 
• quickly become friendly or intimate: we just clicked, and I found myself falling in love 
I didn't meet a woman who I really clicked with until I was 40. 
• become successful or popular: I don't think this issue has clicked with the voters. 
PHRASES
click into place (of an object, especially part of a mechanism) fall smoothly into its allotted position. 
• become suddenly clear and understandable: everything has clicked into place for the organization.ORIGIN late 16th century (as a verb): imitative.
