climb 
BrE klʌɪm, AmE klaɪm 

A.  intransitive verb 
① (move upwards) 攀登 pāndēng to climb up [something]; 爬上 ‹ladder, tree, steps›to climb (up) to the summit 登上顶峰 
② (scale a mountain) 登山 dēngshān 
③ (clamber) 费力爬 fèilì pá to climb over the fence; 费力翻过篱笆 to climb into bed; 费力爬上床 
④ (go higher in sky) «plane, rocket» 爬升 páshēng ; «sun» 升起 shēngqǐ to climb to 10,000 metres 上升到１万米的高度 
⑤ (slope upwards) «road» 向上斜升 xiàng shàng xié shēng ; (grow upwards) «plant» 向上攀缘 xiàng shàng pānyuán there were roses climbing up the walls 有几株玫瑰爬上了墙 
⑥ (increase) «currency» 升值 shēngzhí ; «price» 上涨 shàngzhǎng ; «profits» 增加 zēngjiā ; «temperature, birth rate» 上升 shàngshēng 
⑦ (improve position, status) 晋升 jìnshēng in a few years he had climbed to the top of his profession 他在几年内攀升到了职业生涯的顶峰 the team has now climbed to fourth in the league 该队现已上升到联赛第四名 
B.  transitive verb 攀登 pāndēng ‹mountain, stairs, ladder›the car slowly climbed the hill 汽车慢慢爬上了山 
C.  noun 
① (ascent) 攀登 pāndēng it's an hour's climb to the summit 登顶需一小时 
② (mountain) 攀登的山 pāndēng de shān the most difficult climb in the Alps 阿尔卑斯山脉中最难攀登的山峰 
③ (slope) 上坡 shàngpō 
④ Aviation 爬升 páshēng 
⑤ (increase) 上升 shàngshēng a climb in prices 价格的上涨 the dollar's climb against the euro 美元对欧元汇率的上升 
⑥ (improvement in position, status) 晋升 jìnshēng the book recounts her climb (from obscurity) to stardom 这本书讲述了她（从默默无闻到）成为明星的经历 PHRASAL VERB climb down intransitive verb (admit a mistake) 认错 rèncuò (withdraw) 退让 tuìràng to climb down from [something]; 放弃 ‹accusation, threat, demand›to climb down over [something]; 在…上让步 ‹issue, plan›
climb 
klīm

▶verb
1 [with object] go or come up (a slope, incline, or staircase), especially by using the feet and sometimes the hands; ascend: we began to climb the hill 
[no object] : the air became colder as they climbed higher 
he climbed up the steps slowly. 
• [no object] (of an aircraft or the sun) go upward: we decided to climb to 6,000 feet. 
• [no object] (of a road or track) slope upward or up: the track climbed steeply up a narrow, twisting valley. 
• (of a plant) grow up (a wall, tree, or trellis) by clinging with tendrils or by twining: when ivy climbs a wall, it infiltrates any crack 
[no object] : there were roses climbing up the walls. 
• [no object] grow in scale, value, or power: the stock market climbed 24 points 
he climbed from a job as office messenger to president of the bank. 
• move to a higher position in (a chart or table): the song is climbing the adult-contemporary chart.
2 [no object, with adverbial of direction] move with effort, especially into or out of a confined space; clamber: Howard started to climb out of the front seat 
I climbed down a narrow ladder 
he climbed to a high bough. 
• (climb into) put on (clothes): he climbed into his suit. 
▶noun an ascent, especially of a mountain or hill, by climbing: the rigorous climb up the mountain 
figurative : his long climb from poverty. 
• a mountain, hill, or slope that is climbed or is to be climbed: the mountain is no easy climb. 
• a recognized route up a mountain or cliff: this may be the hardest rock climb in the world. 
• an aircraft's flight upward: we leveled out from the climb at 600 feet 
rate of climb. 
• a rise or increase in value, rank, or power: an above-average climb in prices. 
PHRASES
be climbing the walls informal feel frustrated, helpless, and trapped: his job soon had him climbing the walls.DERIVATIVES climbable 
ˈklīməb(ə)l 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English climban; related to Dutch and German klimmen, also to clay and cleave2 .
