clock 
BrE klɒk, AmE klɑk 

A.  noun 
① (timepiece) 钟 zhōng to put the clock(s) forward/back 把时钟拨快/拨回 around the clock 夜以继日 to beat the clock 提前完成任务 against the clock (timed) 计时地 (to deadline) 争分夺秒地 a race against the clock; 和时间赛跑 the referee has stopped the clock 裁判已经停止记时 to turn or set the clock back pejorative 倒退 
② colloquial (milometer) 计程器 jìchéngqì a car with 20,000 kilometres on the clock 计程器上显示已行驶2万公里的汽车 
③ colloquial (in taxi) 计价器 jìjiàqì to only pay what's on the clock 只付计价器显示的金额 
④ Computing 时钟脉冲发生器 shízhōng màichōng fāshēngqì 
⑤ (in workplace) 记时钟 jìshízhōng to punch the clock (starting work) 打卡记录上班时间 dǎkǎ jìlù shàngbān shíjiān (stopping work) 打卡记录下班时间 dǎkǎ jìlù xiàbān shíjiān 
B.  transitive verb 
① (reach) «athlete» 达到 dádào ‹time, speed›he clocked 9.6 seconds in the 100 metres 他的100米跑了9.6秒 
② (measure) 测量…的速度 cèliáng… de sùdù ‹person›; 测量 cèliáng ‹speed›wind speeds of up to 150 kilometres per hour have been clocked 测到的风速高达每小时150公里 the police clocked her doing over 100 miles per hour 警察测出她车速超过了每小时100英里 
③ especially BrE colloquial (hit) 打 dǎ to clock [somebody] one 打某人一下 
④ BrE colloquial (notice) 注意到 zhùyì dào he didn't even clock that anything was wrong 他甚至没有注意到有什么不对劲的地方 
⑤ BrE Auto colloquial 动手脚拨少…的里程数 dòngshǒujiǎo bōshǎo… de lǐchéngshù ‹vehicle›PHRASAL VERBS clock in intransitive verb 打卡记录上班时间 dǎkǎ jìlù shàngbān shíjiān I clock in at 8.30 我8点30分打卡上班 clock off intransitive verb 打卡记录下班时间 dǎkǎ jìlù xiàbān shíjiān I clock off at 5.30 我5点30分打卡下班 clock on intransitive verb = clock in clock out intransitive verb = clock off clock up transitive verb[clock something up, clock up something] 达到…数值 dádào… shùzhí this car has clocked up 70,000 kilometres 这辆汽车已经行驶了7万公里 I clocked up nine hours' work yesterday 我昨天工作了9个小时 
clock
1 
kläk

▶noun a mechanical or electrical device for measuring time, indicating hours, minutes, and sometimes seconds, typically by hands on a round dial or by displayed figures. 
• (the clock) time taken as a factor in an activity, especially in competitive sports: they play against the clock 
her life is ruled by the clock. 
• informal a measuring device resembling a clock for recording things other than time, such as a speedometer, taximeter, or odometer. 
• see time clock. 
▶verb [with object]
1 attain or register (a specified time, distance, or speed): Thomas has clocked up forty years service 
[no object] : the book clocks in at 989 pages. 
• achieve (a victory): he clocked up his first win of the year. 
• record as attaining a specified time or rate: the tower operators clocked a gust of 185 mph.
2 informal hit (someone), especially on the head: someone clocked him for no good reason. 
PHRASES
around (or round) the clock all day and all night: working around the clock. run out the clock (especially in sports) deliberately use as much time as possible in order to preserve one's own team's advantage: facing a tie, he decided to run out the clock in the final moments. stop the clock allow extra time by temporarily ceasing to count the time left before a deadline arrives: he agreed to stop the clock as negotiations continued. turn (or put) back the clock return to the past or to a previous way of doing things. watch the clock (of an employee) be overly strict or zealous about not working more than one's required hours.PHRASAL VERBS clock in (or out) (of an employee) punch in (or out).ORIGIN late Middle English: from Middle Low German and Middle Dutch klocke, based on medieval Latin clocca ‘bell.’
