closed 
BrE kləʊzd, AmE kloʊzd 
adjective 
① (shut) 关闭的 guānbì de ‹window, drawer›; 闭着的 bìzhe de ‹eyes, mouth›that door is now closed to me figurative 现在我永远失去了那个机会 behind closed doors figurative 秘密地 
② (not open) 不开放的 bù kāifàng de to be closed to cars/the public 不允许汽车通行/不对公众开放 closed for repairs/the winter 因维修/过冬而关闭 
③ (shut down) 停业的 tíngyè de ‹shop, factory›
④ (finished) 结束的 jiéshù de the case is closed 本案已结 
⑤ (insular) 封闭的 fēngbì de ‹economy, society›
⑥ (restricted) 秘密的 mìmì de ‹meeting, organization›a closed session (of congress) （国会的）秘密会议 
⑦ figurative pejorative (blinkered) 守旧的 shǒujiù de ‹mind›to be closed to [something]; 不愿接受某事物 
close
1 
▶adjective
1 the town is close to Paris: near, adjacent to; in the vicinity of, in the neighborhood of, within reach of; neighboring, adjoining, abutting, alongside, on the doorstep, a stone's throw (away) from/to, 'a hop, skip, and a jump from'; nearby, at close quarters to; informal within spitting distance from/to; archaic nigh to. ANTONYMS far, distant.
2 flying in close formation: dense, compact, tight, close-packed, packed, solid; crowded, cramped, congested. ANTONYMS sparse.
3 I was close to tears: near, on the verge of, on the brink of, on the point of.
4 a very close match: evenly matched, even, with nothing to choose between them, neck and neck; informal even-steven. ANTONYMS one-sided.
5 close relatives: immediate, direct, near. ANTONYMS distant.
6 close friends: intimate, dear, bosom; close-knit, tight-knit, inseparable, attached, devoted, faithful; special, good, best, fast, firm; informal (as) thick as thieves. ANTONYMS casual.
7 a close resemblance: strong, marked, distinct, pronounced. ANTONYMS slight.
8 a close examination: careful, detailed, thorough, minute, searching, painstaking, meticulous, rigorous, scrupulous, conscientious; attentive, focused. ANTONYMS casual.
9 keep a close eye on them: vigilant, watchful, keen, alert.
10 a close translation: strict, faithful, exact, precise, literal; word for word, verbatim. ANTONYMS loose.
11 the weather was hot and close: humid, muggy, stuffy, airless, heavy, sticky, sultry, oppressive, stifling. ANTONYMS fresh.
