cloud 
BrE klaʊd, AmE klaʊd 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countableMeteorology 云 yún some patches of cloud 几片云 to have one's head in the clouds 抱有幻想 every cloud has a silver lining proverb 黑暗中总有一线光明 (to be) on cloud nine colloquial 乐不可支 
② Countable(mass of particles) 云状物 yúnzhuàngwù (of insects, birds) 一群 yī qún a cloud of smoke/dust 一片烟雾/尘雾 a cloud of starlings 一群椋鸟 
③ Countable(in liquid) 混浊团 hùnzhuótuán (in gem) 云纹 yúnwén (on glass) 雾气 wùqì 
④ Countablefigurative (dark spot) 阴影 yīnyǐng a cloud of gloom/suspicion 一片忧虑/一团疑云 to cast a cloud over [something] 给某事物蒙上一层阴影 to leave/be under a cloud (of suspicion) 留下疑团/受到怀疑 
B.  transitive verb 
① (blur) 使…模糊 shǐ… móhu ‹sky, vision›eyes clouded with tears 泪水模糊的眼睛 
② figurative (confuse) 使…迷惑 shǐ… míhuò ‹mind›; 使…混乱 shǐ… hùnluàn ‹memory›
③ figurative (blight) 破坏 pòhuài ‹future, atmosphere›PHRASAL VERB cloud over intransitive verb 
① literal «sky» 阴云密布 yīnyún mìbù 
② figurative «expression, face» 阴沉下来 yīnchén xialai 
cloud 
kloud

▶noun
1 a visible mass of condensed water vapor floating in the atmosphere, typically high above the ground: the sun had disappeared behind a cloud 
the full moon, hidden by veils of cloud. 
• an indistinct or billowing mass, especially of smoke or dust: a cloud of dust. 
• a large number of insects or birds moving together: clouds of orange butterflies. 
• a vague patch of color in or on a liquid or transparent surface.
2 a state or cause of gloom, suspicion, trouble, or worry: the only cloud to appear on the horizon was Leopold's unexpected illness 
a black cloud hung over their lives. 
• a frowning or depressed look: a cloud passed over Jessica's face.
3 (often the cloud) Computing a network of remote servers hosted on the Internet and used to store, manage, and process data in place of local servers or personal computers: $13 per month gets you 25GB of storage in the cloud 
[as modifier] : once you are logged in to your cloud storage space, you can upload files to it and share them with others. 
▶verb
1 [no object] (of the sky) become overcast with clouds: the blue skies clouded over abruptly. 
• [with object] darken (the sky) with clouds: the western sky was still clouded.
2 make or become less clear or transparent: [with object] : blood pumped out, clouding the water 
[no object] : her eyes clouded with tears. 
• [with object] make (a matter or mental process) unclear or uncertain; confuse: don't allow your personal feelings to cloud your judgment. 
• [with object] spoil or mar (something): the general election was clouded by violence.
3 [no object] (of someone's face or eyes) show worry, sorrow, or anger: his expression clouded over. 
• [with object] (of such an emotion such as worry, sorrow, or anger) show in (someone's face): suspicion clouded her face. 
PHRASES
every cloud has a silver lining see silver. have one's head in the clouds (of a person) be out of touch with reality; be daydreaming. in the clouds out of touch with reality: this clergyman was in the clouds. on cloud nine extremely happy. [with reference to a ten-part classification of clouds in which “nine” was next to the highest.]under a cloud under suspicion; discredited: he left under something of a cloud, accused of misappropriating funds.DERIVATIVES cloudlet 
ˈkloudlət 
nounORIGIN Old English clūd ‘mass of rock or earth’; probably related to clot. Sense
1 of the noun dates from Middle English.
