code 
BrE kəʊd, AmE koʊd 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(cipher) 密码 mìmǎ to be in code 用密码编写 to break or crack the code 破译密码 to speak in code figurative 说晦涩难懂的行话 
② Countable(set of rules or laws) 法规 fǎguī 
③ Countable(of behaviour) 规范 guīfàn to break the code 违反规则 an unwritten code 不成文的准则 a code of practice 行业规则 a code of ethics 道德规范 
④ CountableTelecommunications 区号 qūhào area/country code 区号/国家代码 
⑤ UncountableComputing 编码 biānmǎ assembly/machine code 汇编码/机器码 
B.  transitive verb 将…编码 jiāng… biānmǎ ‹message›
code 
kōd

▶noun
1 a system of words, letters, figures, or other symbols substituted for other words, letters, etc., especially for the purposes of secrecy: the Americans cracked their diplomatic code 
sending messages in code. 
• a system of signals, such as sounds, light flashes, or flags, used to send messages: Morse code. 
• a series of letters, numbers, or symbols assigned to something for the purposes of classification or identification: the genetic code 
calls with either code will work in the 201 area.
2 Computing program instructions: hundreds of lines of code 
assembly code.
3 a systematic collection of laws or regulations: the criminal code. 
• a set of conventions governing behavior or activity in a particular sphere: a dress code. 
• a set of rules and standards adhered to by a society, class, or individual: a stern code of honor. 
▶verb [with object]
1 convert (the words of a message) into a particular code in order to convey a secret meaning: only Mitch knew how to read the message—even the name was coded. 
• express the meaning of (a statement or communication) in an indirect or euphemistic way: (as adjective coded) : a national campaign against “playing by ear,” a coded phrase that meant jazz. 
• assign a code to (something) for purposes of classification, analysis, or identification: she coded the samples and sent them down for dissection.
2 write code for (a computer program): most developers code C + + like C 
[no object] : I no longer actively code in PH
P. 
3 [no object] (code for) Biochemistry specify the genetic sequence for (an amino acid or protein): genes that code for human growth hormone. 
• be the genetic determiner of (a characteristic): one pair of homologous chromosomes that codes for eye color. 
PHRASES
bring something up to code North American renovate an old building or update its features in line with the latest building regulations.DERIVATIVES coder 
ˈkōdər 
nounORIGIN Middle English: via Old French from Latin codex, codic- (see codex). The term originally denoted a systematic collection of statutes made by one of the later Roman emperors, particularly that of Justinian; compare with sense
3 of the noun (mid 18th century), the earliest modern sense.
