cold 
BrE kəʊld, AmE koʊld 

A.  adjective 
① (chilly) 寒冷的 hánlěng de ‹day, climate, weather, house›; 冷的 lěng de ‹meal›; 冰凉的 bīngliáng de ‹metal, floor, hands›cold water 冷水 a cold shower 冷水浴 it's going to be a cold day 今天天气会很冷 the soup should be served cold 汤要凉了再上 to feel cold «person, room, object» 感觉冷 the glass felt cold to the touch 玻璃摸上去很凉 to get cold «weather, person, food» 变冷 your dinner's getting cold 你的饭都快凉了 don't let the baby get cold 别让婴儿着凉 to keep [something] cold 冷藏 lěngcáng ‹food›to be as cold as ice «person, body part, room» 冰冷 in cold blood 残忍地 to pour or throw cold water on [something] figurative 给…泼冷水 ‹plan, suggestion›to have or get cold feet figurative 打退堂鼓 
② (creating impression of low temperature) 给人冷感的 gěi rén lěnggǎn de blue is a cold colour 蓝色是冷色 the light is too cold 这种光线给人的感觉太冷了 in the cold light of day (after a night's sleep) 在大清早（思维清晰时） (rationally) 冷静后（再看） let's wait and see how it looks in the cold light of day 我们等冷静下来了再看看情况到底如何 
③ (unemotional, unfriendly) 冷酷的 lěngkù de ‹person, heart, smile›; 冷漠的 lěngmò de ‹expression, look›; 冷冰冰的 lěngbīngbīng de ‹atmosphere, manner, voice›to be cold to or towards [somebody] 对某人冷淡 to leave [somebody] cold 激不起某人的兴趣 football leaves me cold 我对足球没兴趣 
④ (dispassionate) 冷静的 lěngjìng de ‹reasoning, judgement›
⑤ (not recent) 过时的 guòshí de ‹news›; 已变淡的 yǐ biàndàn de ‹scent›the trail has gone cold 踪迹已变淡 
⑥ predicative (in guessing) 猜得离谱的 cāi de lípǔ de (in hunting) 远离目标的 yuǎnlí mùbiāo de you're getting colder! 你越猜越离谱！ 
⑦ predicative colloquial (unconscious) to be out cold 昏迷不醒 hūnmí bù xǐng to knock [somebody] (out) cold 打昏某人 dǎhūn mǒu rén 
⑧ predicative (dead) 尸体变凉的 shītǐ biànliáng de she was already cold when they found her 当他们找到她时，她的尸体已经凉了 
B.  noun 
① Uncountable(chilliness) 寒冷 hánlěng the cold of winter 冬天的严寒 this plant doesn't like the cold 这种植物不耐寒 to feel the cold 对寒冷敏感 he was shivering with cold 他冷得直发抖 to be out in the cold 待在外面的严寒中 to come in from or out of the cold 进来避寒 figurative (return to favour) 重新得宠 chóngxīn déchǒng (be included) 不再被冷落 bù zài bèi lěngluò to leave [somebody] out in the cold figurative 将某人排除在外 
② CountableMedicine 感冒 gǎnmào to have or get or catch a cold 患感冒 
C.  adverb 
① colloquial (without preparation) 无准备地 wúzhǔnbèi de ‹speak, perform›they tried to play the piece cold 他们尝试不排练就演奏这支曲子 
② AmE 完全地 wánquán de his final request stopped her cold 他最后的请求让她不知所措 
cold 
kōld

▶adjective
1 of or at a low or relatively low temperature, especially when compared with the human body: a freezing cold day 
it's cold outside 
a sharp, cold wind. 
• (of food or drink) served or consumed without being heated or after cooling: a cold drink 
serve hot or cold. 
• (of a person) feeling uncomfortably cold: she was cold, and I put some more wood on the fire. 
• feeling or characterized by fear or horror: he suddenly went cold with a dreadful certainty 
a cold shiver of fear. 
• informal unconscious: she was out cold. 
• dead: lying cold and stiff in a coffin.
2 lacking affection or warmth of feeling; unemotional: how cold and calculating he was 
cold black eyes 
cold politeness. 
• not affected by emotion; objective: cold statistics. 
• sexually unresponsive; frigid. 
• depressing or dispiriting; not suggestive of warmth: the cold, impersonal barrack-room 
a cold light streamed through the window. 
• (of a color) containing pale blue or gray. 
• ineffective in playing a game: Butler capitalized on Xavier's cold shooting.
3 (of the scent or trail of a hunted person or animal) no longer fresh and easy to follow: the trail went cold. 
• (in children's games) far from finding or guessing what is sought, as opposed to warm or nearing success.
4 without preparation or rehearsal; unawares: going into the test cold. 
▶noun
1 a low temperature, especially in the atmosphere; cold weather; a cold environment: my teeth chattered with the cold 
they nearly died of cold.
2 a common viral infection in which the mucous membrane of the nose and throat becomes inflamed, typically causing running at the nose, sneezing, a sore throat, and other similar symptoms. 
▶adverb North American informal completely; entirely: she knew world capitals cold by age nine. 
PHRASES
as cold as ice (or stone or the grave, etc.) very cold.catch (or take) cold become infected with a cold. cold comfort 
ˌkōld ˈkəmfərt 
poor or inadequate consolation: another drop in the inflation rate was cold comfort for the 2.74 million jobless. cold feet loss of nerve or confidence: some investors got cold feet and backed out. the cold light of day the objective realities of a situation: in the cold light of day it all seemed so ridiculous. the cold shoulder a show of intentional unfriendliness; rejection: why is even his own family giving him the cold shoulder? cold-shoulder someone reject or be deliberately unfriendly to someone. down cold see down1. in cold blood without feeling or mercy; ruthlessly: the government forces killed them in cold blood. out in the cold ignored; neglected: the talks left the French out in the cold. throw (or pour) cold water on be discouraging or negative about.DERIVATIVES coldish 
ˈkōldiSH 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English cald, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch koud and German kalt, also to Latin gelu ‘frost.’
