collect 
BrE kəˈlɛkt, AmE kəˈlɛkt 

A.  transitive verb 
① (gather) 收集 shōují ‹glasses, information, evidence›; «animal» 采集 cǎijí ‹leaves, nuts›
② (as hobby) 收藏 shōucáng ‹stamps, works of art, rare books›
③ (get control of) 使镇定 shǐ zhèndìng to collect one's thoughts 冷静下来 to collect one's wits 镇定思绪 
④ (muster) 积聚起 jījùqǐ to collect one's courage 鼓起勇气 to collect one's strength 奋力 
⑤ (receive) «surface, container» 接收 jiēshōu ‹liquid, powder, gas›I put out a bucket to collect some rainwater 我把一个水桶放在外面接些雨水 a substance that collects moisture from the air 一种吸收空气中水分的物质 
⑥ (accumulate) «surface» 积聚 jījù ‹liquid, dust›this skirt always collects dog hairs 这条裙子老是粘狗毛 
⑦ (get money owed) 收取 shōuqǔ ‹money, debt, tax›the landlord collects the rent on Fridays 房东逢周五收房租 
⑧ (be awarded) 获取 huòqǔ ‹prize, award, degree›she went up to collect her prize 她走上前去领奖 when will she be able to start collecting her pension? 她什么时候能开始领退休金？ the winner collects £2,000 优胜者获得2,000英镑 
⑨ (for cause, charity) 募集 mùjí ‹money, donation›
⑩ (take away) 收 shōu ‹empty bottles, rubbish›; 领取 lǐngqǔ ‹goods, parcel›‘buyer collects’ (in small ad) “买家自提” to collect the mail or post 取邮件 
⑪ (pick up) «person, car» 接 jiē ‹person›; 取 qǔ ‹keys, book›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (come together) 聚集 jùjí by the time the police arrived, a small crowd had collected 警察赶到时，已经聚集起了一小群人 
② (accumulate) «dust, water, gas» 聚积 jùjī 
③ (for cause, charity) to collect for [somebody]/[something]; 为某人/某事物募捐 wèi mǒu rén/mǒu shìwù mùjuān 
④ colloquial (make money) 获得大笔款项 huòdé dà bǐ kuǎnxiàng 
C.  reflexive verb to collect oneself 镇静下来 zhènjìng xialai 
D.  adverb AmE 由接收人付款 yóu jiēshōurén fùkuǎn to call ([somebody]) collect （给某人）打由受话人付费的电话 PHRASAL VERBS collect together transitive verb [collect something together, collect together something] 收拾 shōushi collect up transitive verb [collect something up, collect up something] 把…收放好 bǎ… shōu fàng hǎo 
collect
1 
kəˈlekt

▶verb [with object]
1 bring or gather together (things, typically when scattered or widespread): he went around the office collecting old coffee cups 
he collected up all his clothing. 
• accumulate and store over a period of time: collect rainwater to use on the garden. 
• systematically seek and acquire (items of a particular kind) as a hobby: I've started collecting stamps 
[no object] : the urge to collect, to have the full set, is in us all. 
• [no object] come together and form a group or mass: worshipers collected together in a stadium 
dust and dirt collect so quickly.
2 call for and take away; fetch: the children were collected from school. 
• go somewhere and accept or receive (something), especially as a right or due: she went to Oxford to collect her honorary degree. 
• solicit and receive (donations), especially for charity: collecting money for the war effort 
[no object] : we collected for the United Way. 
• receive (money that is due); be paid: [with object] : they called to collect a debt 
[no object] : he'd come to collect.
3 (collect oneself) regain control of oneself, typically after a shock. 
• bring together and concentrate (one's thoughts).
4 archaic conclude; infer: by all best conjectures, I collect Thou art to be my fatal enemy.
5 cause (a horse) to bring its hind legs further forward as it moves, thereby shortening the stride and increasing balance and impulsion. 
▶adverb & adjective North American (with reference to a telephone call) to be paid for by the person receiving it: [as adverb] : I called my mother collect 
[as adjective] : a collect call. ORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French collecter or medieval Latin collectare, from Latin collect- ‘gathered together,’ from the verb colligere, from col- ‘together’ + legere ‘choose or collect.’
