collection 
BrE kəˈlɛkʃ(ə)n, AmE kəˈlɛkʃ(ə)n 
noun 
① Uncountable(gathering) 收集 shōují the collection of data/solar energy 数据/太阳能的收集 
② Countable(assemblage) (of objects) 一批 yī pī (of people) 一群 yī qún a large collection of dictionaries 许多词典 an odd collection of people 没有共同点的一群人 a rambling collection of houses 杂乱无章的住宅群 
③ Countable(of paintings, stamps etc.) 收藏物 shōucángwù a collection of stamps/paintings 一批邮票/绘画藏品 
④ CountableClothing 时装系列 shízhuāng xìliè 
⑤ Uncountable(of tax, rent, debts etc.) 收取 shōuqǔ the collection of taxes 收税 
⑥ Countable(of donations) (act of collecting) 募捐 mùjuān (sum collected) 募集款 mùjíkuǎn to have or make a collection (for [somebody]/[something]) （为某人/某事物）募捐 we had a collection for Sarah's wedding present 我们凑份子给萨拉买了结婚礼物 the collection raised £650 募捐筹集到650英镑 
⑦ Countable(in church) 捐施 juānshī 
⑧ Uncountable and countable(picking up, fetching) 取走 qǔzǒu you have to pay for collection (of rubbish) 你得交垃圾清运费 (of mail) 你得交邮件收取费 the car is ready for collection 汽车可以提货了 
collection 
kəˈlekSH(ə)n

▶noun
1 the action or process of collecting someone or something: the collection of maple sap 
tax collection. 
• a regular removal of mail for dispatch or of trash for disposal. 
• an instance of collecting money in a church service or for a charitable cause: when she died, they took up a collection for her burial. 
• a sum of money raised by a charity collection.
2 a group of things or people: a rambling collection of houses. 
• an assembly of items such as works of art, pieces of writing, or natural objects, especially one systematically ordered: paintings from the permanent collection 
a record collection. 
• (collections) an art museum's holdings organized by medium, such as sculpture, painting, or photography. 
• a book or recording containing various texts, poems, songs, etc.: a collection of essays. 
• a range of new clothes produced by a fashion house: a preview of their autumn collection. ORIGIN late Middle English: via Old French from Latin collectio(n-), from colligere ‘gather together’ (see collect1) .
