collapse 
BrE kəˈlaps, AmE kəˈlæps 

A.  intransitive verb 
① (give way) «building, wall» 倒塌 dǎotā the chair collapsed under his weight 椅子被他坐塌了 
② (fall to ground, faint) 晕倒 yūndǎo (lose control) 支撑不住 zhīchēng bùzhù he collapsed from loss of blood 他因失血而虚脱 to collapse with laughter 笑得直不起腰 
③ colloquial (sit or lie down heavily) 累得倒下 lèi de dǎoxia to collapse into/on to [something]; 累得倒在某物里面/上面 
④ (fail) «regime, health, system, economy» 垮掉 kuǎdiào ; «bank, company, newspaper» 倒闭 dǎobì ; «deal, talks, relationship» 破裂 pòliè ; «case, plan, trial» 失败 shībài ; «hopes» 破灭 pòmiè ; «government» 垮台 kuǎtái to collapse into chaos 乱成一团 
⑤ (to drop in value) «shares, prices, market» 暴跌 bàodiē 
⑥ (deflate) «lung» 萎陷 wěixiàn ; «balloon, cake» 瘪掉 biědiào 
⑦ (fold) «furniture, equipment, umbrella» 折叠起来 zhédié qilai 
B.  transitive verb 
① (fold) 折叠 zhédié ‹furniture, equipment, umbrella›
② (combine) 合并 hébìng ‹ideas, paragraphs›
C.  nounUncountable and countable
① (giving way) 倒塌 dǎotā the collapse of the roof 屋顶的坍塌 
② (physical or mental breakdown) (illness) 病倒 bìngdǎo (falling ill) 晕倒 yūndǎo she suffered a complete collapse 她彻底崩溃了 to be in a state of nervous/emotional collapse 处于精神崩溃/情绪失控状态 
③ (failure) (of regime, health, system, economy) 崩溃 bēngkuì (of bank, company, newspaper) 倒闭 dǎobì (of deal, talks, relationship) 破裂 pòliè (of case, plan, trial) 失败 shībài (of hope) 破灭 pòmiè (of government) 垮台 kuǎtái to be in a state of total collapse 土崩瓦解 
④ (drop in value) 暴跌 bàodiē 
⑤ (deflation) (of lung) 萎陷 wěixiàn (of balloon, cake) 瘪掉 biědiào 
collapse 
kəˈlaps

▶verb [no object]
1 (of a structure) fall down or in; give way: the roof collapsed on top of me. 
• [with object] cause (something) to fall in or give way: it feels as if the slightest pressure would collapse it 
figurative : many people tend to collapse the distinction between the two concepts. 
• (of a lung or blood vessel) fall inward and become flat and empty: (as adjective collapsed) : a collapsed lung. 
• [with object] cause (a lung or blood vessel) to do this.
2 (of a person) fall down and become unconscious, typically through illness or injury: he collapsed from loss of blood. 
• sit or lie down as a result of tiredness or amusement: exhausted, he collapsed on the bed 
the three of them collapsed with laughter.
3 (of an institution or undertaking) fail suddenly and completely: in the face of such resolve his opposition finally collapsed. 
• (of a price or currency) drop suddenly in value.
4 fold or be folded to fit into a small space: [no object] : some cots collapse down to fit into a bag. 
• [with object] compress a displayed part of (a spreadsheet or other electronic document): tabulation programs can be used to collapse this list in various ways. 
▶noun an instance of a structure falling down or in: the collapse of a railroad bridge 
the church roof is in danger of collapse. 
• a sudden failure of an institution or undertaking: the collapse of the Ottoman Empire. 
• a physical or mental breakdown: he suffered a collapse from overwork 
she's lying there in a state of collapse. ORIGIN early 17th century (as collapsed): from medical Latin collapsus, past participle of collabi, from col- ‘together’ + labi ‘to slip.’
