colour 
BrE ˈkʌlə, AmE ˈkələr
BrE 
A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(hue) 颜色 yánsè a bright/dark/pale/warm/cold colour 亮色/深色/浅色/暖色/冷色 to take the colour out of [something] 使某物褪色 to change colour 变色 biànsè wait until you've seen the colour of his money 等先弄清他是不是真的有钱再说 
② Uncountable(not black-and-white) 彩色 cǎisè in colour 彩色的 a colour TV/picture 彩色电视/照片 
③ Uncountable(vividness) 生动 shēngdòng the last movement is full of colour 最后一个乐章非常生动 to give or lend colour to [something] (authenticity) 使某事物显得可信 (vividness) 使某事物更加生动 
④ Uncountable and countable(paint, cosmetic) 颜料 yánliào (dye) 染料 rǎnliào (additive) 色素 sèsù I hope the colour won't run 我希望这种颜料不渗色 hair colour 染发液 cheek/eye/lip colour 腮红/眼影/口红 to paint [something] in glowing colours figurative 把某事物描绘得很美好 
⑤ Uncountable(complexion) 脸色 liǎnsè to change colour (go pale) 面色变苍白 (go red) 脸红 liǎnhóng to bring colour to [somebody's] cheeks, to put colour into [somebody's] cheeks 使某人脸色红润 to get one's colour back 恢复气色 
⑥ Uncountable and countable(racial pigmentation) 肤色 fūsè 
B.  colours noun plural 
① (clothing) (of sports team) 队服 duìfú to show one's true colours 露出真面目 
② School, University (badge, cap) 校体育运动队队标 xiào tǐyù yùndòngduì duìbiāo to get colours, to win one's colours 入选运动队 
③ especially BrE (flag) (of a country) 国旗 guóqí (of a regiment) 团旗 tuánqí (of a ship) 船旗 chuánqí they saluted the colours 他们向国旗敬礼 → nail 
B. 
① 
C.  transitive verb 
① (put colour on) 给…着色 gěi… zhuósè ‹picture, food›to colour [something] blue 把某物染成蓝色 to colour one's hair 染发 
② pejorative (prejudice) 影响 yǐngxiǎng ‹opinion, judgement, attitude›
③ pejorative (enhance) (by exaggeration) 渲染 xuànrǎn ‹account, excuse›(by distortion) 歪曲 wāiqū ‹account›she coloured her story with an exaggerated description of the attack 她夸大其词地描述那次袭击，从而使她的故事更加生动 
D.  intransitive verb 
① (change colour) 变色 biànsè 
② (go red) to colour (up); 脸红 liǎnhóng to colour (up) at [something]; 听到…脸红 tīng dào… liǎnhóng ‹laughter, applause›to colour (up) with [something]; 因…而脸红 yīn… ér liǎnhóng ‹anger, embarrassment›PHRASAL VERB colour in transitive verb [colour something in, colour in something] 给…上色 gěi… shàngshǎi 
color 
ˈkələr 
(British colour) 
▶noun
1 the property possessed by an object of producing different sensations on the eye as a result of the way the object reflects or emits light: the lights flickered and changed color. 
• one, or any mixture, of the constituents into which light can be separated in a spectrum or rainbow, sometimes including (loosely) black and white: a rich brown color 
a range of bright colors. 
• the use of all colors, not only black, white, and gray, in photography or television: he has shot the whole film in color 
[as modifier] : color television. 
• a substance used to give something a particular color: lip color. 
• Heraldry any of the major conventional colors used in coats of arms (gules, vert, sable, azure, purpure), especially as opposed to the metals, furs, and stains.
2 pigmentation of the skin, especially as an indication of someone's race: discrimination on the basis of color. 
• a group of people considered as being distinguished by skin pigmentation: all colors and nationalities. 
• rosiness or redness of the face as an indication of health or of embarrassment, anger, etc.: there was some color back in his face 
color flooded her skin as she realized what he meant.
3 vividness of visual appearance resulting from the presence of brightly colored things: for color, plant groups of winter-flowering pansies. 
• picturesque or exciting features that lend a particularly interesting quality to something: a town full of color and character. 
• variety of musical tone or expression: orchestral color.
4 (colors) an item or items of a particular color or combination of colors worn to identify an individual or a member of a school, group, or organization. 
• the flag of a regiment or ship. 
• a national flag: he was called to the colors during the war.
5 a shade of meaning: many events in her past had taken on a different color. 
• character or general nature: the hospitable color of his family.
6 Physics a quantized property of quarks which can take three values (designated blue, green, and red) for each flavor.
7 Mining a particle of gold remaining in a mining pan after most of the mud and gravel have been washed away. 
▶verb
1 [with object] change the color of (something) by painting, dyeing, or shading it. 
• [no object] take on a different color: the foliage will not color well if the soil is too rich. 
• use crayons to fill (a particular shape or outline) with color: color the head, eyes, and bill with crayons. 
• make vivid or picturesque: he has colored the dance with gestures from cabaret and vaudeville.
2 [no object] (of a person or their skin) show embarrassment or shame by becoming red; blush: everyone stared at him, and he colored slightly. 
• [with object] cause (a person's skin) to change in color: rage colored his pale complexion. 
• [with object] (of an emotion) imbue (a person's voice) with a particular tone: surprise colored her voice.
3 [with object] influence, especially in a negative way; distort: the experiences had colored her whole existence. 
• misrepresent by distortion or exaggeration: witnesses might color evidence to make a story saleable. 
PHRASES
lend (or give) color to make something seem true or probable: this lent color and credibility to his defense. show one's true colors reveal one's real character or intentions, especially when these are disreputable or dishonorable. under color of under the pretext of. with flying colors see flying. ORIGIN Middle English (as colo(u)r): from Old French colour (noun), colourer (verb), from Latin color (noun), colorare (verb).
