combination 
BrE kɒmbɪˈneɪʃ(ə)n, AmE ˌkɑmbəˈneɪʃ(ə)n 
noun 
① Countable(two or more things together, mixture) 混合体 hùnhétǐ the weather was a combination of bitter cold and sun 那天天气既有阳光又很寒冷 for a combination of reasons 由于种种原因 
② Uncountable(linking, mixing) 混合 hùnhé in combination with … 与…结合地 the producer, in combination with the designer, has achieved a miracle 生产商与设计师联手创造了奇迹 
③ Countable(sequence) 组合 zǔhé the canvases may be arranged in any number of combinations 这些船帆可以进行多种组合 
④ CountableSport 组合动作 zǔhé dòngzuò a good uppercut/hook combination 漂亮的上钩拳/勾拳连击 
⑤ Countable(for lock) 密码组合 mìmǎ zǔhé 
⑥ Countable(motorcycle and sidecar) 跨斗摩托车 kuàdǒu mótuōchē 
combination 
ˌkämbəˈnāSH(ə)n

▶noun
1 a joining or merging of different parts or qualities in which the component elements are individually distinct: a combination of blackberries, raspberries, and rhubarb 
this color combination is stunningly effective. 
• the process of combining different parts or qualities or the state of being combined: these four factors work together in combination. 
• an arrangement of elements: the canvases may be arranged in any number of combinations. 
• (in various sports and games) a coordinated and effective sequence of moves: a good uppercut/hook combination. 
• [as modifier] uniting different uses, functions, or ingredients: a combination garment bag and backpack. 
• Chemistry the joining of substances in a compound with new properties.
2 a sequence of numbers or letters used to open a combination lock: [as modifier] : a combination briefcase.
3 Mathematics a selection of a given number of elements from a larger number without regard to their arrangement. DERIVATIVES combinational 
-SHənl 
adjective. combinative 
ˈkämbəˌnādiv kəmˈbīnədiv 
adjective. combinatorial 
ˌkämb(ə)nəˈtôrēəl 
adjective (Mathematics). combinatorially adverb (Mathematics). combinatory 
kəmˈbīnəˌtôre, ˈkämbənə- 
adjectiveORIGIN late Middle English: from late Latin combinatio(n-), from the verb combinare ‘join two by two’ (see combine1) .
