comfort 
BrE ˈkʌmfət, AmE ˈkəmfərt 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(physical well-being) 舒适 shūshì she did all she could for our comfort 她竭尽所能让我们舒适些 
② Uncountable(prosperity) 富足 fùzú to live in comfort 过优裕的生活 a life of comfort and security 安逸的生活 
③ Countable(amenity) 使生活舒适之物 shǐ shēnghuó shūshì zhī wù 
④ Uncountable and countable(consolation, source of consolation) 安慰 ānwèi to bring or give comfort to [somebody]; 给某人安慰 to take or derive comfort from [something]; 从某事物中得到安慰 we can take comfort from the fact that … 令我们感到安慰的是… we did catch the train, but it was too close for comfort 我们确实赶上了火车，但是太悬了，让人心有余悸 spiritual comfort 精神慰藉 to be a comfort to [somebody]; «person, knowledge, belief» 对某人是个安慰 
B.  transitive verb «person, words, gift» 安慰 ānwèi the little girl ran to her mother to be comforted 小女孩跑到妈妈那里寻求安慰 to be comforted by the thought that … 因想到…而感到安慰 
comfort 
ˈkəmfərt

▶noun
1 a state of physical ease and freedom from pain or constraint: room for four people to travel in comfort. 
• (comforts) things that contribute to physical ease and well-being: the low upholstered chair was one of the room's few comforts. 
• prosperity and the pleasant lifestyle secured by it: my father left us enough to live in comfort.
2 the easing or alleviation of a person's feelings of grief or distress: a few words of comfort 
they should take comfort that help is available. 
• [in singular] a person or thing that helps to alleviate a difficult situation: his friendship was a great comfort.
3 US dialect a warm quilt. 
▶verb [with object] ease the grief or distress of; console: she broke down in tears and her friend tried to comfort her. 
• improve the mood of or restore a sense of well-being to: he dined outdoors, comforted by the crackling sounds of the fire. 
PHRASES
too — for comfort causing physical or mental unease by an excess of the specified quality: it can be too hot for comfort in July and August.ORIGIN Middle English (as a noun, in the senses ‘strengthening, support, consolation’; as a verb, in the senses ‘strengthen, give support, console’): from Old French confort (noun), conforter (verb), from late Latin confortare ‘strengthen,’ from com- (expressing intensive force) + Latin fortis ‘strong.’ The sense ‘something producing physical ease’ arose in the mid 17th century.
