commission 
BrE kəˈmɪʃ(ə)n, AmE kəˈmɪʃən 

A.  noun 
① Countable(committee) 委员会 wěiyuánhuì a commission on human rights 人权委员会 
② Uncountable and countable(payment for goods sold) 佣金 yòngjīn to work (for [somebody]) on commission or on a commission basis; 以拿佣金的方式（为某人）工作 
③ Countable(professional fee) 手续费 shǒuxùfèi 
④ Countable(order, instruction) 委托 wěituō (piece of work) 受委托创作的作品 shòu wěituō chuàngzuò de zuòpǐn to have a commission to do [something] 受委托做某事 to get a commission from [somebody] 得到某人的委托 
⑤ CountableMilitary 委任状 wěirènzhuàng to resign one's commission 辞去委任的军职 
⑥ Uncountableformal (perpetration) (of crime, sin) the commission of a crime 犯罪 fànzuì 
⑦ Uncountable(operation) to be in commission; «vehicle, equipment, system» 在使用中 the new submarine will be in commission in June 新潜艇将在6月投入服役 to be out of commission; «vehicle, equipment, system» 不能使用 «person» 不能工作 bù néng gōngzuò to put the boat out of commission 弃用那条船 he'll be out of commission for the World Cup 他将不能征战世界杯 
B.  transitive verb 
① (order) 委托创作 wěituō chuàngzuò ‹work of art, music, painting›; 委托写 wěituō xiě ‹book, report›; 委托做 wěituō zuò ‹investigation›to commission an author to write a novel 约作者写小说 
② Military 授予…委任状 shòuyǔ… wěirènzhuàng a commissioned officer 军官 he was commissioned as an officer in 1972 他于1972年被任命为军官 
③ (prepare for service) 将…投入使用 jiāng… tóurù shǐyòng ‹vehicle, equipment, system›the power station will be commissioned next March 电站将于明年3月投入使用 
commission 
kəˈmiSHən 
(abbreviation comm.) 
▶noun
1 an instruction, command, or duty given to a person or group of people: his commission to redesign the building 
he received a commission to act as an informer. 
• an order for something, especially a work of art, to be produced: Mozart at last received a commission to write an opera. 
• a work produced in response to a commission. 
• archaic the authority to perform a task or certain duties.
2 a group of people officially charged with a particular function: the United Nations High Commission for Refugees.
3 an amount of money, typically a set percentage of the value involved, paid to an agent in a commercial transaction: foreign banks may charge a commission 
he sold cosmetics on commission.
4 a warrant conferring the rank of officer in an army, navy, or air force: he has resigned his commission.
5 the action of committing a crime or offense: use of a deadly weapon in the commission of a felony. 
▶verb [with object]
1 give an order for or authorize the production of (something such as a building, piece of equipment, or work of art): the portrait was commissioned by his widow in 1792. 
• order or authorize (a person or organization) to do or produce something: they commissioned an architect to manage the building project.
2 bring (something newly produced, such as a factory or machine) into working condition: we had a few hiccups getting the heating equipment commissioned. 
• bring (a warship) into readiness for active service: the aircraft carrier Midway was commissioned in 1945.
3 appoint (someone) to the rank of officer in the armed services: he was commissioned after attending midshipman school 
(as adjective commissioned) : a commissioned officer. 
PHRASES
in commission (of a ship, vehicle, machine, etc.) in use or in service. out of commission not in service; not in working order. 
• (of a person) unable to work or function normally, especially through illness or injury.DERIVATIVES commissionable adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: via Old French from Latin commissio(n-), from committere ‘entrust’ (see commit) .
