command 
BrE kəˈmɑːnd, AmE kəˈmænd 
A. noun 
① Uncountable and countable(order) 命令 mìnglìng at [somebody's] command 听从某人的命令 on command 按照命令 by royal command 奉谕旨 
② UncountableMilitary (authority) 控制权 kòngzhìquán (people) 指挥权 zhǐhuīquán to be in command (of or over [somebody]/[something]); 指挥（某人/某事物） to be under the command of [somebody], to be under [somebody's] command; 受某人指挥 
③ Uncountable(control) 控制 kòngzhì in command of oneself/the situation; 能控制自己/局面 
④ Uncountable(mastery of skill, language etc.) 掌握 zhǎngwò he had an excellent command of Russian 他精通俄语 she had a good command of computing skills 她电脑操作技能娴熟 to have [something] at one's command 精通某事物 
⑤ CountableComputing 指令 zhǐlìng 
⑥ Countableplus singular or plural verb Military (group of soldiers) 所辖部队 suǒ xiá bùduì 
⑦ CountableMilitary (district) 防区 fángqū 
B.  transitive verb 
① (order) «person» 命令采取 mìnglìng cǎiqǔ ‹behaviour, measures›he commanded us to enter 他命令我们进去 she commanded silence 她命令保持安静 ‘put it down’, he commanded “把它放下来”，他命令道 
② Military (be in charge of) 指挥 zhǐhuī ‹regiment, operation›; 控制 kòngzhì ‹territory, air, sea›
③ (have available) 拥有 yōngyǒu ‹funds, resources›the power and finances commanded by the police 警方拥有的权力和财力 the party was no longer able to command a majority in Parliament 该党在议会中不再占多数了 
④ (deserve and get) «person» 赢得 yíngdé ‹respect, support›; «action» 值得 zhídé ‹attention, sympathy›to command a good price 值高价 
⑤ (dominate) «fortress» 对…呈控制之势 duì… chéng kòngzhì zhī shì ‹valley›; (overlook) «building» 俯临 fǔlín ‹view›their encampment commanded the only approach road 他们的营地扼住了唯一的通路 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (order) 命令 mìnglìng 
② Military (be in charge) 当指挥官 dāng zhǐhuīguān 
command 
▶verb
1 he commanded his men to retreat: order, tell, direct, instruct, call on, require; literary bid.
2 Jones commanded a tank squadron: be in charge of, be in command of, be the leader of; head, lead, control, direct, manage, supervise, oversee; informal head up.
3 they command great respect: receive, get, gain, secure.
▶noun
1 officers shouted commands: order, instruction, directive, direction, commandment, injunction, decree, edict, demand, stipulation, requirement, exhortation, bidding, request.
2 he had 160 men under his command: authority, control, charge, power, direction, dominion, guidance; leadership, rule, government, management, supervision, jurisdiction.
3 a brilliant command of Italian: knowledge, mastery, grasp, comprehension, understanding.CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD See jurisdiction .These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.QUOTE Seven months ago I could give a command and 541,000 people would immediately obey it. Today I can’t get a plumber to come to my house.
H.  Norman Schwarzkopf, US Army general
