communication 
BrE kəmjuːnɪˈkeɪʃ(ə)n, AmE kəˌmjunəˈkeɪʃ(ə)n 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(exchange) 交流 jiāoliú (imparting) (of information) 传达 chuándá ; (of ideas, feelings) 表达 biǎodá to be in communication (with [somebody]); （与某人）联络 to get into communication with [somebody]; 与某人进行交流 a means/system/channel of communication 传播方式/体系/渠道 
② Countableformal (message) 信息 xìnxī a communication from your previous employers/the police 来自你过去的雇主/警方的信息 
③ UncountableMedicine (of disease, virus) 传染 chuánrǎn 
B.  communications noun plural 
① Telecommunications 通信 tōngxìn communications technology 通信技术 a breakdown in communications 通信中断 
② Transport (infrastructure) 交通联系 jiāotōng liánxì to have good communications with [something] 与…保持畅通的交通联络 ‹port, city›
③ plus singular verb (field of study) 传播学 chuánbōxué communications studies 传播学研究 
communication 
kəˌmyo͞onəˈkāSH(ə)n

▶noun
1 the imparting or exchanging of information or news: direct communication between the two countries will produce greater understanding 
at the moment I am in communication with London. 
• a letter or message containing information or news. 
• the successful conveying or sharing of ideas and feelings: there was a lack of communication between Pamela and her parents. 
• social contact: she gave him some hope of her return, or at least of their future communication.
2 (communications) means of connection between people or places, in particular: 
• the means of sending or receiving information, such as telephone lines or computers: satellite communications 
[as modifier] : a communications network. 
• the means of traveling or of transporting goods, such as roads or railroads: a city providing excellent road and rail communications. 
• [treated as singular] the field of study concerned with the transmission of information by various means. 
PHRASES
lines of communication the connections between an army in the field and its bases. 
• any system for communicating information or ideas: bureaucracies are characterized by established lines of communication.DERIVATIVES communicational 
-ˈkāSHənl 
adjectiveORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French comunicacion, from Latin communicatio(n-), from the verb communicare ‘to share’ (see communicate) .
