comment 
BrE ˈkɒmɛnt, AmE ˈkɑmɛnt 

A.  noun 
① Countable and uncountable(remark(s)) 评论 pínglùn to make comments (about [something]) （对某事物）作评论 no comment 无可奉告 without comment 不加评论地 a comment on or about [something]; 对某事物的意见 
② CountableLiterature 注解 zhùjiě edited by 
J.  Jones with comments by 
S.  Smith 由
J. 琼斯编辑并由
S. 史密斯注释的 
③ Countable(unfavourable reflection) 批评 pīpíng to be a comment on [something]; 是对某事物的指责 
④ Uncountable(response) 意见 yìjiàn the plans were sent to the council for comment 计划已呈送委员会征求意见 to evoke comment 引发议论 
B.  transitive verb 评论 pínglùn to comment that …; 评论说… 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (make remark) 评论 pínglùn to comment on [something]/[somebody] 对某事物/某人发表意见 
② Literature «scholar, text» 作评注 zuò píngzhù to comment on [something]; 对某事物作评注 
comment 
ˈkäment

▶noun a verbal or written remark expressing an opinion or reaction: you asked for comments on the new proposals. 
• discussion, especially of a critical nature, of an issue or event: the plans were not sent to the council for comment. 
• an indirect expression of the views of the creator of an artistic work: their second single is a comment on the commercial nature of raves. 
• an explanatory note in a book or other written text. 
• archaic a written explanation or commentary. 
• Computing a piece of specially tagged text placed within a program to help other users to understand it, which the computer ignores when running the program. 
▶verb [with object] express (an opinion or reaction): the review commented that the book was agreeably written 
[no object] : the company would not comment on the venture 
“He's an independent soul,” she commented. 
• [with object] Computing place a piece of specially tagged explanatory text within (a program) to assist other users. 
• Computing turn (part of a program) into a comment so that the computer ignores it when running the program: you could try commenting out that line. 
PHRASES
no comment used in refusing to answer a question, especially in a sensitive situation.ORIGIN late Middle English (in the senses ‘expository treatise’ and ‘explanatory note’): from Latin commentum ‘contrivance’ (in late Latin also ‘interpretation’), neuter past participle of comminisci ‘devise.’
