community 
BrE kəˈmjuːnɪti, AmE kəˈmjunədi 
noun 
① Countable(social, cultural grouping) 团体 tuántǐ ethnic communities 种族团体 the academic/business/scientific community 学术界/商业界/科学界 the gay/student community 同性恋/学生团体 a virtual community 虚拟社团 
② Countable(geographical grouping) (at local level) 社区 shèqū (at national level) 社会 shèhuì the village had a close-knit community 这个村子的村民关系很密切 the international community 国际社会 the local community was or were shocked 当地社会感到震惊 before noun (locally funded) 地方出资的 dìfāng chūzī de ‹library, park, health service›
③ Uncountable and countable(sharing) 共享 gòngxiǎng a sense of community 团体意识 a community of interest 利益的一致 
④ Countable(of plants, animals) 群落 qúnluò 
community 
kəˈmyo͞onədē

▶noun (plural communities)
1 a group of people living in the same place or having a particular characteristic in common: Rhode Island's Japanese community 
the scientific community. 
• a group of people living together in one place, especially one practicing common ownership: a community of nuns. 
• a particular area or place considered together with its inhabitants: a rural community. 
• a body of nations or states unified by common interests: [in names] : the European Community 
the African Economic Community. 
• (the community) the people of a district or country considered collectively, especially in the context of social values and responsibilities; society: preparing prisoners for life back in the community. 
• [as modifier] denoting a worker or resource designed to serve the people of a particular area: community health services.
2 a feeling of fellowship with others, as a result of sharing common attitudes, interests, and goals: the sense of community that organized religion can provide. 
• [in singular] a similarity or identity: writers who shared a community of interests. 
• joint ownership or liability: a commitment to the community of goods.
3 Ecology a group of interdependent organisms of different species growing or living together in a specified habitat: communities of insectivorous birds. 
PHRASES
the international community the countries of the world considered collectively.ORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French comunete, reinforced by its source, Latin communitas, from communis (see common) .
