common 
BrE ˈkɒmən, AmE ˈkɑmən 

A.  adjective 
① (often encountered) 常见的 chángjiàn de in common use 常用的 it is common (for [somebody]) to do [something] （某人）常做某事 to be common as muck colloquial 司空见惯 
② (shared) 共同的 gòngtóng de ‹purpose, interest, language›; 共有的 gòngyǒu de ‹wall, land›to be common knowledge 人所共知 by common consent/agreement 经一致同意 the two countries share a common frontier 这两个国家有一条共同边界 
③ attributive (ordinary) 普通的 pǔtōng de the common man/people 普通人 to be in/out of the common run (of things) 平常/不寻常 the common touch 平易近人的特点 
④ attributive (minimum expected) 起码的 qǐmǎ de it would just be common courtesy to apologize 道歉只是起码的礼貌 
⑤ pejorative (vulgar) 粗俗的 cūsú de her dress and accent were common 她的衣着和口音都很俗气 
⑥ Mathematics 公共的 gōnggòng de a common factor 公因子 
B.  noun Uncountable and countable公地 gōngdì 
C.  in common adverb phrase 共同地 gòngtóng de we have a lot/nothing/very little in common 我们有很多/没有任何/几乎没有共同之处 to hold [something] in common 共同拥有 ‹property, estate›in common with many people, they decided not to vote 与很多人一样，他们决定不投票 
common 
ˈkämən

▶adjective (commoner, commonest)
1 occurring, found, or done often; prevalent: salt and pepper are the two most common seasonings 
it's common for a woman to be depressed after giving birth. 
• (of an animal or plant) found or living in relatively large numbers; not rare. 
• ordinary; of ordinary qualities; without special rank or position: the dwellings of common people 
a common soldier. 
• (of a quality) of a sort or level to be generally expected: common decency. 
• of the most familiar type: the common or vernacular name. 
• denoting the most widespread or typical species of an animal or plant: the common blue spruce.
2 showing a lack of taste and refinement; vulgar.
3 shared by, coming from, or done by more than one: the two republics' common border 
problems common to both communities. 
• belonging to, open to, or affecting the whole of a community or the public: common land. 
• Mathematics belonging to two or more quantities.
4 Grammar (in Latin and certain other languages) of or denoting a gender of nouns that are conventionally regarded as masculine or feminine, contrasting with neuter. 
• (in English) denoting a noun that refers to individuals of either sex (e.g., teacher).
5 Prosody (of a syllable) able to be either short or long.
6 Law (of a crime) of relatively minor importance: common assault. 
▶noun
1 a piece of open land for public use, especially in a village or town.
2 (in the Christian Church) a form of service used for each of a group of occasions. 
PHRASES
the common good the benefit or interests of all: it is time our elected officials stood up for the common good. common ground opinions or interests shared by each of two or more parties: artists from different cultural backgrounds found common ground. common knowledge something known by most people. common or garden British informal of the usual or ordinary type: a yak is your basic common or garden cow, only bigger, hairier, and wilder. common property a thing or things held jointly. 
• something known by most people. the common touch the ability to get along with or appeal to ordinary people. in common
1 in joint use or possession; shared: car engines have nothing in common with aircraft engines.
2 of joint interest: the two men had little in common. See also tenancy in common. in common with in the same way as: in common with other officers, I had to undertake guard duties.DERIVATIVES commonness 
ˈkämənˌnəs 
nounORIGIN Middle English: from Old French comun (adjective), from Latin communis .
