company 
BrE ˈkʌmp(ə)ni, AmE ˈkəmp(ə)ni 
noun 
① Countable(firm) 公司 
② Countable(group of performers) 剧团 
③ Uncountable(companionship, companions) 陪伴 (society) 交往 to enjoy [somebody's] company 喜欢和某人在一起 in [somebody's] company 与某人在一起 in mixed company 在男女混杂的场合 to keep [somebody] company; 陪伴某人 to keep bad company 与坏人混在一起 a man is known by the company he keeps proverb 观其友则知其人 to part company (with [somebody]) (leave) （与某人）分手 figurative (disagree) （与某人）意见不合 to part company (with [something]) （与某事物）分离 two's company(, three's a crowd) proverb 两人为伴（，三人添乱） to be in good company figurative 很多人也有过同样的尴尬 in company with most teachers, she was underpaid 与大多数教师一样，她工资很低 → present
1 
A. 
① 
④ Uncountable(visitors) 客人 kèrén to have (got) company; 有客人 
⑤ Countableplus singular or plural verb formal (gathering) 一群 yī qún a large company of young people 一大群年轻人 the assembled company 聚在一起的一群人 
⑥ Countableplus singular or plural verb Military 连 lián 
⑦ Countableplus singular or plural verb Nautical (ship's) company 全体船员 quántǐ chuányuán 
company 
ˈkəmp(ə)nē

▶noun (plural companies)
1 a commercial business: a shipping company 
[in names] : the Ford Motor Company 
[as modifier] : a company director.
2 the fact or condition of being with another or others, especially in a way that provides friendship and enjoyment: I could do with some company. 
• a person or people seen as a source of such friendship and enjoyment: she is excellent company. 
• the person or group of people whose society someone is currently sharing: he was silent among such distinguished company. 
• a visiting person or group of people: I'm expecting company.
3 a number of individuals gathered together, especially for a particular purpose: the mayor addressed the assembled company. 
• a body of soldiers, especially the smallest subdivision of an infantry battalion, typically commanded by a major or captain: the troops of C Company. 
• a group of actors, singers, or dancers who perform together: a touring opera company.
4 (the Company) informal the Central Intelligence Agency. 
▶verb (companies, companying, companied) [no object] (company with) literary associate with; keep company with: these men which have companied with us all this time. 
• [with object] archaic accompany (someone): the fair dame, companied by Statius and myself. 
PHRASES
and company used after a person's name to denote those people usually associated with them: the psycholinguistics of Jacques Lacan and company. 
• used in the name of a business to denote other unspecified partners: Little, Brown and Company. be in good company be in the same situation as someone important or respected: if you spot the ghost, you are in good company: King George V saw it too. in company with another person or a group of people: you were never to mention in company your father's uncle. in company with together with: the 
U. 
S.  dollar went through a bad patch in 1986, in company with the oil market. keep someone company accompany or spend time with someone in order to prevent them from feeling lonely or bored. 
• engage in the same activity as someone else in order to be sociable: I'll have a drink myself, just to keep you company. keep company with associate with habitually: we don't especially care for the people he's been keeping company with. 
• have a social or romantic relationship with; date: are you keeping company with anyone special these days? part company see part. ORIGIN Middle English (in sense
2 of the noun and sense
3 of the noun): from Old French compainie; related to compaignon (see companion1).
