compact 
A.  /BrE kəmˈpakt, AmE kəmˈpækt
adjective 
① (compressed) 坚实的 jiānshí de ‹substance, soil›a compact cluster of houses 一片密集的房屋 
② (small and neatly constructed) 小巧紧凑的 xiǎoqiǎo jǐncòu de ‹kitchen, piece of equipment›on journeys he took a compact chess set 旅行时，他带了一副袖珍国际象棋 
③ (sturdy) 结实的 jiēshi de a man/woman of compact build 体格健壮的男人/女人 
④ figurative (concise) 简洁的 jiǎnjié de ‹style, text›
B.  /BrE ˈkɒmpakt, AmE ˈkɑmˌpækt
noun 
① (agreement) 协议 xiéyì to make a compact; 达成协议 a compact between [somebody] and [somebody]; 某人与某人之间的契约 
② (cosmetics case) 带镜粉盒 dài jìng fěnhé 
③ AmE Auto compact (car) 小型汽车 xiǎoxíng qìchē 
C.  /BrE kəmˈpakt, AmE kəmˈpækt
transitive verb 压实 yāshí ‹substance, object›; 压缩 yāsuō ‹data›
compact
1 
▶adjective 
kəmˈpakt ˈkämˌpakt 

1 closely and neatly packed together; dense: a compact cluster of houses. 
• having all the necessary components or features neatly fitted into a small space: a compact car. 
• (of a person or animal) small, solid, and well-proportioned. 
• (of speech or writing) concise in expression: a compact summary of the play.
2 [predicative] (compact of) archaic composed or made up of: towns compact of wooden houses. 
▶verb 
kəmˈpakt 
[with object] exert force on (something) to make it more dense; compress: the soil may be compacted by iron oxide 
(as adjective compacted) : compacted paper waste. 
• [no object] (of a substance) become compressed: the snow hardened and compacted. 
• archaic form (something) by pressing its component parts firmly together. 
• express in fewer words; condense: the ideas are compacted into two sentences. 
▶noun 
ˈkämˌpakt 

1 a small flat case containing face powder, a mirror, and a powder puff.
2 something that is a small and conveniently shaped example of its kind, in particular: 
• short for compact car.
3 Metallurgy a mass of powdered metal compacted together in preparation for sintering. DERIVATIVES compaction 
kəmˈpakSHən 
noun. compactly 
kəmˈpak(t)lē ˈkämˌpak(t)lē 
adverb. compactness 
kəmˈpak(t)nəs ˈkämˌpak(t)nəs 
noun. compactor 
kəmˈpaktər ˈkämˌpaktər 
(also compacter) nounORIGIN late Middle English: from Latin compact- ‘closely put together, joined,’ from the verb compingere, from com- ‘together’ + pangere ‘fasten.’
