compliment 
A.  noun/BrE ˈkɒmplɪm(ə)nt, AmE ˈkɑmpləmənt

① (remark) 赞扬 zànyáng to pay [somebody] a compliment on [something] 在某事物上称赞某人 to return the compliment 回应他人的称赞 figurative ironic 照样回敬 zhàoyàng huíjìng to take [something] as a compliment; 把某话当成赞美之词 
② (act) 致意 zhìyì it's a compliment to the bride to dress up on her special day 在新娘大喜的日子里穿上盛装是对她的祝贺 
B.  compliments noun plural 
① (expressions of praise) 称赞之词 chēngzàn zhī cí to give [somebody] one's compliments; 给某人以赞美 to angle or fish for compliments 故意寻求别人的恭维 
② formal (in greetings) 问候 wènhòu to give [somebody] one's compliments; 问候某人 with the compliments of the season (on Christmas cards) 致以节日的问候 my compliments to your wife 请向尊夫人致意 with compliments (on transmission slip) 谨此致意 the champagne comes with the compliments of the management 香槟酒是管理层赠送的 
C.  transitive verb/BrE ˈkɒmplɪmɛnt, AmE ˈkɑmpləˌmɛnt
称赞 chēngzàn to compliment [somebody] on [something]; 为某事物称赞某人 
compliment 
▶noun 
ˈkämpləmənt 
a polite expression of praise or admiration: she paid me an enormous compliment. 
• an act or circumstance that implies praise or respect: it's a compliment to the bride to dress up on her special day. 
• (compliments) congratulations or praise expressed to someone: my compliments on your cooking. 
• (compliments) greetings or regards, especially when sent as a message: carry my compliments to your kinsmen. 
▶verb 
ˈkämpləˌment 
[with object] politely congratulate or praise (someone) for something: he complimented Erica on her appearance. 
• praise (something) politely: complimenting the other team's good play. 
• (compliment someone with) archaic present someone with (something) as a mark of courtesy: Prince George expected to be complimented with a seat in the royal coach. 
PHRASES
compliments of the season used as a seasonal greeting at Christmas or the New Year. pay one's compliments send or express formal greetings. return the compliment give a compliment in return for another. 
• retaliate or respond in kind. with someone's compliments (or the compliments of) used to express the fact that what one is giving is free: all drinks will be supplied with our compliments.ORIGIN mid 17th century: from French compliment (noun), complimenter (verb), from Italian complimento ‘fulfillment of the requirements of courtesy,’ from Latin complementum ‘completion, fulfillment’ (reflected in the earlier English spelling complement, gradually replaced by the French form between 1655 and 1715). usage: Compliment (together with complimentary) is quite different in meaning from complement (and complementary). See usage at complement .
