complex 
A.  /BrE ˈkɒmplɛks, AmE ˌkɑmˈplɛks, kəmˈplɛks, ˈkɑmˌplɛks
adjective 
① (intricate) 复杂的 fùzá de ‹structure, life›complex number/quantity Mathematics 复数/复合量 
② (complicated) 难懂的 nán dǒng de ‹theory, person, situation›
B.  /BrE ˈkɒmplɛks, AmE ˈkɑmplɛks
noun 
① (buildings) 建筑群 jiànzhùqún an industrial/a sports complex 大型工业中心/综合体育场 a leisure/show/housing complex 休闲/展览/住宅中心 
② Psychology 情结 qíngjié guilt/Electra complex 不正常的负罪感/恋父情结 
③ (network) 综合体系 zōnghé tǐxì round the missile base there was a complex of access roads 在导弹基地周围路网错综复杂 
complex 
▶adjective 
ˌkämˈpleks kəmˈpleks ˈkämˌpleks 

1 consisting of many different and connected parts: a complex network of water channels. 
• not easy to analyze or understand; complicated or intricate: a complex personality 
the situation is more complex than it appears.
2 Mathematics denoting or involving numbers or quantities containing both a real and an imaginary part.
3 Chemistry denoting an ion or molecule in which one or more groups are linked to a metal atom by coordinate bonds. 
▶noun 
ˈkämpleks 

1 a group of similar buildings or facilities on the same site: a new apartment complex 
a complex of hotels. 
• a group or system of different things that are linked in a close or complicated way; a network: a complex of mountain roads.
2 Psychoanalysis a related group of emotionally significant ideas that are completely or partly repressed and that cause psychic conflict leading to abnormal mental states or behavior. 
• informal a disproportionate concern or anxiety about something: there's no point having a complex about losing your hair.
3 Chemistry an ion or molecule in which one or more groups are linked to a metal atom by coordinate bonds. 
• any loosely bonded species formed by the association of two molecules: cross-linked protein-DNA complexes. 
▶verb 
ˈkämpleks 
[with object] (usually be complexed) Chemistry make (an atom or compound) form a complex with another: the DNA was complexed with the nuclear extract 
(as adjective complexed) : the complexed metal ion. DERIVATIVES complexation 
kämˌplekˈsāSHən, kəm- 
noun (Chemistry). complexly adverbORIGIN mid 17th century (in the sense ‘group of related elements’): from Latin complexus, past participle (used as a noun) of complectere ‘embrace, comprise,’ later associated with complexus ‘plaited’; the adjective is partly via French complexe .
