compromise 
BrE ˈkɒmprəmʌɪz, AmE ˈkɑmprəˌmaɪz 

A.  noun 
① Countable(settlement) 妥协 tuǒxié to make or reach or come to a compromise 达成妥协 to agree to a compromise 同意达成妥协 he was the compromise candidate, not anybody's first choice 他是个折中的候选人，并不是任何人的首选 a compromise plan/proposal 折中计划/提议 
② Uncountable(willingness to settle) 妥协态度 tuǒxié tàidu 
B.  intransitive verb 妥协 tuǒxié to compromise on [something]; 在某事上作出让步 
C.  transitive verb 
① (threaten) 危及 wēijí she was much compromised by the gossip surrounding her divorce 关于她离婚的闲言碎语令她声誉受到很大损害 
② (weaken) «person» 减少 jiǎnshǎo ‹chances, hope›; «person» 在…上让步 zài… shang ràngbù ‹principles›; «event» 损害 sǔnhài ‹reputation›to compromise success 减少成功的机会 
D.  reflexive verb to compromise oneself; 使自己受到损害 shǐ zìjǐ shòudào sǔnhài 
compromise 
ˈkämprəˌmīz

▶noun an agreement or a settlement of a dispute that is reached by each side making concessions: an ability to listen to two sides in a dispute, and devise a compromise acceptable to both 
the secret of a happy marriage is compromise. 
• a middle state between conflicting opinions or actions reached by mutual concession or modification: a compromise between commercial appeal and historical interest. 
• the acceptance of standards that are lower than is desirable: sexism should be tackled without compromise. 
▶verb
1 [no object] settle a dispute by mutual concession: in the end we compromised and deferred the issue. 
• [with object] archaic settle (a dispute) by mutual concession: I should compromise the matter with my father.
2 [no object] accept standards that are lower than is desirable: we were not prepared to compromise on safety. 
• [with object] weaken (a reputation or principle) by accepting standards that are lower than is desirable: commercial pressures could compromise safety.
3 [with object] bring into disrepute or danger by indiscreet, foolish, or reckless behavior: situations in which his troops could be compromised. 
• cause to become vulnerable or function less effectively: yo-yo dieting can compromise your immune system 
last month's leak of source code will not compromise your IT security. DERIVATIVES compromiser nounORIGIN late Middle English (denoting mutual consent to arbitration): from Old French compromis, from late Latin compromissum ‘a consent to arbitration,’ neuter past participle of compromittere, from com- ‘together’ + promittere (see promise) .
