compare 
BrE kəmˈpɛː, AmE kəmˈpɛr 

A.  transitive verb 
① (contrast) 比较 bǐjiào to compare A and or with or to B; 比较A与B to compare like with like 比较两种相似的事物 to compare notes with [somebody] figurative 与某人交换意见 
② (liken) 把…比作 bǎ… bǐzuò ‹oneself, thing, activity›to compare A and or with or to B; 把A比作B 
B.  intransitive verb 相比 xiāngbǐ to compare with [somebody]/[something]; 与某人/某事物相比较 the two televisions compare well for price 这两台电视的价格都还行 to compare favourably/unfavourably with [something] 比某事物好/差 
C.  nounUncountableliterary 比较 bǐjiào to be beyond or past or without compare; 无与伦比 a beauty/leader beyond compare 绝世美人/无人能比的领导者 
compare 
kəmˈper

▶verb [with object]
1 estimate, measure, or note the similarity or dissimilarity between: individual schools compared their facilities with those of others in the area 
the survey compares prices in different countries 
total attendance figures were 28,000, compared to 40,000 at last year's event. 
• (compare something to) point out the resemblances to; liken to: her novel was compared to the work of Daniel Defoe. 
• (compare something to) draw an analogy between one thing and (another) for the purposes of explanation or clarification: he compared the religions to different paths toward the peak of the same mountain. 
• [no object] have a specified relationship with another thing or person in terms of nature or quality: salaries compare favorably with those of other professions. 
• [no object] be of an equal or similar nature or quality: sales were modest and cannot compare with the glory days of 1989.
2 (usually be compared) Grammar form the comparative and superlative degrees of (an adjective or an adverb): words of one syllable are usually compared by “-er” and “-est.” 
PHRASES
beyond (or without) compare of a quality or nature surpassing all others of the same kind: a diamond beyond compare. compare notes (of two or more people) exchange ideas, opinions, or information about a particular subject.ORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French comparer, from Latin comparare, from compar ‘like, equal,’ from com- ‘with’ + par ‘equal.’ usage: Traditionally, compare to is used when similarities are noted in dissimilar things: shall I compare thee to a summer's day? To compare with is to look for either differences or similarities, usually in similar things: compare the candidate's claims with his actual performance. In practice, however, this distinction is rarely maintained. See also usage at contrast .
