complement 
A.  noun/BrE ˈkɒmplɪm(ə)nt, AmE ˈkɑmpləmənt

① (improving addition) 补充的东西 bǔchōng de dōngxi to be a complement to [something]/[somebody]; 是某事物/某人的补充 
② (quota) 足额 zú'é with a full complement of staff 工作人员满员地 
③ Linguistics 补语 bǔyǔ 
④ Mathematics 余角 yújiǎo 
B.  transitive verb/BrE ˈkɒmplɪmɛnt, AmE ˈkɑmpləˌmɛnt
补充 bǔchōng ‹colour, flavour›; 使更具吸引力 shǐ gèng jù xīyǐnlì ‹person›to complement one another 互补 wine complements cheese 乳酪佐以葡萄酒，味道很好 
complement 
▶noun 
ˈkämpləmənt 

1 a thing that completes or brings to perfection: the libretto proved a perfect complement to the music.
2 [in singular] a number or quantity of something required to make a group complete: at the moment we have a full complement of staff. 
• the number of people required to crew a ship: almost half the ship's complement of 322 were wounded. 
• Geometry the amount in degrees by which a given angle is less than 90°. 
• Mathematics the members of a set that are not members of a given subset.
3 Grammar one or more words, phrases, or clauses governed by a verb (or by a nominalization or a predicative adjective) that complete the meaning of the predicate. 
• (in systemic grammar) an adjective or noun that has the same reference as either the subject (as mad in he is mad) or the object (as mad in he drove her mad).
4 Physiology a group of proteins present in blood plasma and tissue fluid that combine with an antigen–antibody complex to bring about the lysis of foreign cells. 
▶verb 
ˈkämpləˌment 
[with object] add to (something) in a way that enhances or improves it; make perfect: a classic blazer complements a look that's stylish or casual. 
• add to or make complete: the proposals complement the incentives already available. DERIVATIVES complemental 
ˌkämpləˈmentl 
adjectiveORIGIN late Middle English (in the sense ‘completion’): from Latin complementum, from complere ‘fill up’ (see complete). Compare with compliment . usage: Complement and compliment (together with related words such as complementary and complimentary) are frequently confused. They are pronounced in the same way but have quite different meanings: as a verb, complement means ‘add to something in a way that enhances or improves,’ as in a classic blazer complements a look that's smart or casual, while compliment means ‘admire and praise someone for something,’ as in he complimented her on her appearance. Complementary means ‘forming a complement or addition, completing,’ as in I purchased a suit with a complementary tie. This is often confused with complimentary, for which one sense is ‘given freely, as a courtesy’: honeymooners receive complimentary fruit and flowers.
