concrete 
BrE ˈkɒŋkriːt, AmE ˈkɑnˌkrit, ˌkɑnˈkrit 

A.  noun Uncountable混凝土 hùnníngtǔ prestressed/reinforced concrete 预应力/钢筋混凝土 
B.  adjective 
① Construction 混凝土制的 hùnníngtǔzhì de a concrete building/slab/floor/path 混凝土建筑物/预制板/地板/小路 
② (specific) 具体的 jùtǐ de ‹answer, proposal›in concrete terms 具体来说 concrete evidence 确凿的证据 
③ (physical) 有形的 yǒuxíng de ‹object›
④ Linguistics 实的 shí de a concrete noun 具体名词 
⑤ Literature 具体派诗歌的 jùtǐpài shīgē de concrete poetry/poets 具体派诗歌/具体派诗人 PHRASAL VERBS concrete in transitive verb [concrete in something], [concrete something in] 把…铸在混凝土中 bǎ… zhù zài hùnníngtǔ zhōng concrete over transitive verb [concrete over something] 用混凝土覆盖 yòng hùnníngtǔ fùgài ‹ground›to concrete over a lawn 用混凝土铺草坪 
concrete 
ˈkänˌkrēt ˌkänˈkrēt

▶adjective existing in a material or physical form; real or solid; not abstract: concrete objects like stones 
it exists as a physically concrete form. 
• specific; definite: I haven't got any concrete proof. 
• (of a noun) denoting a material object as opposed to an abstract quality, state, or action. 
▶noun a heavy, rough building material made from a mixture of broken stone or gravel, sand, cement, and water, that can be spread or poured into molds and that forms a stonelike mass on hardening: slabs of concrete 
[as modifier] : the concrete sidewalk. 
▶verb [with object]
1 cover (an area) with concrete: the precious English countryside may soon be concreted over. 
• [with object] fix in position with concrete: the post is concreted into the ground.
2 archaic form (something) into a mass; solidify: the juices of the plants are concreted upon the surface. 
• make real or concrete instead of abstract: concreting God into actual form. 
PHRASES
be set in concrete (of a policy or idea) be fixed and unalterable: I do not regard the Constitution as set in concrete.DERIVATIVES concreteness 
ˌkənˈkritnəs 
nounORIGIN late Middle English (in the sense ‘formed by cohesion, solidified’): from French concret or Latin concretus, past participle of concrescere ‘grow together.’ Early use was also as a grammatical term designating a quality belonging to a substance (usually expressed by an adjective such as white in white paper) as opposed to the quality itself (expressed by an abstract noun such as whiteness); later concrete came to be used to refer to nouns embodying attributes (e.g., fool, hero), as opposed to the attributes themselves (e.g., foolishness, heroism), and this is the basis of the modern use as the opposite of ‘abstract’ The noun sense ‘building material’ dates from the mid 19th century.
