conduct 
A.  /BrE ˈkɒndʌkt, AmE ˈkɑnˌdəkt
nounUncountable
① (behaviour) 行为 xíngwéi code of conduct 行为规范 a medal for good conduct 优良表现勋章 
② (handling) 处理 chǔlǐ (of campaign, survey) 实施 shíshī (of business) 经营 jīngyíng 
B.  /BrE kənˈdʌkt, AmE kənˈdəkt
transitive verb 
① (lead) 为…做向导 wèi… zuò xiàngdǎo ‹visitor›she conducted us around the house 她领我们在房子里转了转 
② (manage) 处理 chǔlǐ ‹affairs›; 安排 ānpái ‹life›; 经营 jīngyíng ‹business›; 进行 jìnxíng ‹negotiations, survey, campaign›to conduct an inquiry 进行调查 to conduct a case/defence 处理案件/进行辩护 
③ Music 指挥 zhǐhuī ‹choir, concert›she regularly conducts Mozart 她经常指挥演奏莫扎特作品 
④ Electricity, Physics 传导 chuándǎo ‹energy, electricity›does water conduct heat well? 水的导热性好吗？ 
C.  /BrE kənˈdʌkt, AmE kənˈdəkt
intransitive verb 指挥 zhǐhuī he conducted from the piano 他通过钢琴来指挥 he went on a conducting course 他上了指挥课 
D.  /BrE kənˈdʌkt, AmE kənˈdəkt
reflexive verb to conduct oneself 表现 biǎoxiàn the government has conducted itself in the most shameful way 该政府的表现令人不齿 the little girl conducted herself like a perfect lady 这个小姑娘的举止像一位淑女 
conduct 
▶noun 
ˈkänˌdəkt 

1 the manner in which a person behaves, especially on a particular occasion or in a particular context: the conduct of the police during the riot 
members are bound by a code of conduct.
2 the action or manner of managing an activity or organization: his conduct of the campaign. 
• archaic the action of leading; guidance: traveling through the world under the conduct of chance. 
▶verb 
kənˈdəkt 
[with object]
1 organize and carry out: in the second trial he conducted his own defense 
surveys conducted among students. 
• direct the performance of (a piece of music or a musical ensemble): my first attempt to conduct a great work 
[no object] : Toscanini is coming to conduct. 
• lead or guide (someone) to or around a particular place: he conducted us through his personal gallery of the Civil War. 
• Physics transmit (a form of energy such as heat or electricity) by conduction: heat is conducted to the surface.
2 (conduct oneself) behave in a specified way: he conducted himself with the utmost propriety. DERIVATIVES conductible 
kənˈdəktəbəl 
adjective. conductibility 
kənˌdəktəˈbilədē 
nounORIGIN Middle English: from Old French, from Latin conduct- ‘brought together,’ from the verb conducere. The term originally denoted some provision for safe passage, such as an escort or pass, surviving in safe conduct; later the verb sense ‘lead, guide’ arose, hence ‘manage’ and ‘management’ (late Middle English), later ‘management of oneself, behavior’ (mid 16th century). The original form of the word was conduit, which was preserved only in the sense ‘channel’ (see conduit); in all other uses the spelling was influenced by Latin.
