confirm 
BrE kənˈfəːm, AmE kənˈfərm 
transitive verb 
① (state as true) 证实 zhèngshí ‹theory, news, suspicion›to confirm that …; 证实… two people were confirmed dead 两人被证实死亡 to confirm receipt of 确认收到 ‹cheque, goods›‘yes, it's Tuesday,’he confirmed “对，今天是星期二，”他肯定说 
② (make definite) 确认 quèrèn ‹appointment, reservation›; 批准 pīzhǔn ‹treaty›to confirm [somebody] as director 批准某人担任负责人 to confirm [somebody] in office 批准某人上任 
③ (justify) 巩固 gǒnggù ‹authority, position›; 加强 jiāqiáng ‹opinion, resolve, emotion, doubt›her letter confirmed my resolve to go to Africa 她的信更坚定了我去非洲的决心 to confirm [somebody] in their dislike of …/reluctance to …; 使某些人更确信自己不喜欢/不愿意… 
④ Religion 给…施坚信礼 gěi… shī jiānxìnlǐ ‹person›
confirm 
kənˈfərm

▶verb [with object]
1 establish the truth or correctness of (something previously believed, suspected, or feared to be the case): if these fears are confirmed, the outlook for the economy will be dire 
the report confirms that a diet rich in vitamin C can help to prevent cataracts. 
• state with assurance that a report or fact is true: he confirmed that the general was in the hands of the rebels 
“It is indeed real coffee,” I confirmed. 
• (confirm someone in) reinforce someone in (an opinion, belief, or feeling): he fueled his misogyny by cultivating women who confirmed him in this view. 
• make (a provisional arrangement or appointment) definite: Mr. Baker's assistant telephoned to confirm his appointment with the chairman. 
• make (something, especially a person's appointment to a position or an agreement) formally valid; ratify: the organization has confirmed the appointment of Mr. Collins as managing director. 
• formally declare (someone) to be appointed to a particular position: he was confirmed as the new peace envoy.
2 administer the religious rite of confirmation to: he had been baptized and confirmed. DERIVATIVES confirmative 
kənˈfərmədiv 
adjective. confirmatory 
kənˈfərməˌtôrē 
adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: from Old French confermer, from Latin confirmare, from con- ‘together’ + firmare ‘strengthen’ (from firmus ‘firm’).
