contact 
A.  /BrE ˈkɒntakt, AmE ˈkɑnˌtækt
noun 
① Uncountable(touch) 接触 jiēchù to come in or into/get in or into/make contact with … 接触到… to maintain/lose contact 保持/脱离接触 to explode on contact (with …) （与…）一触即爆 
② Uncountable(communication) 联系 liánxì to make/maintain contact 建立/保持联系 to break off/lose contact 中断/失去联系 to come in or into contact 开始接触 to bring [somebody] in or into contact with … 使某人接触… 
③ Uncountable(by radar, radio) 通讯 tōngxùn to be in contact 处于通讯联系状态 
④ Countable(acquaintance) 熟人 shúrén 
⑤ Countable(meeting, acquaintanceship) 交往 jiāowǎng business/social contacts 商业往来/社会关系 
⑥ CountableElectricity (connection) 接触 jiēchù (device) 接触器 jiēchùqì 
⑦ Countablecolloquial = contact lens 
B.  /BrE ˈkɒntakt, kənˈtakt, AmE ˈkɑnˌtækt, kənˈtækt
transitive verb 联系 liánxì he could not be contacted by phone 无法通过电话联系到他 
contact 
▶noun 
ˈkänˌtakt 

1 the state or condition of physical touching: the tennis ball is in contact with the court surface for as little as
5 milliseconds. 
• the state or condition of communicating or meeting: Lewis and Clark came into contact with numerous river tribes 
he had lost contact with his friends. 
• [as modifier] activated by or operating through physical touch: contact dermatitis. 
• a connection for the passage of an electric current from one thing to another, or a part or device by which such a connection is made: a one-way electrical contact between a metal and a semiconductor. 
• (contacts) contact lenses.
2 a meeting, communication, or relationship with someone: they have forged contacts with key people in business. 
• a person who may be communicated with for information or assistance, especially with regard to one's job: Francie had good contacts. 
• a person who has associated with a patient with a contagious disease (and so may carry the infection). 
▶verb 
ˈkänˌtakt kənˈtakt 
[with object] communicate with (someone), typically in order to give or receive specific information. DERIVATIVES contactable 
ˈkäntaktəbəl 

ˈkänˌtaktəbəl, kənˈtaktəbəl 
adjectiveORIGIN early 17th century: from Latin contactus, from contact- ‘touched, grasped, bordered on,’ from the verb contingere, from con- ‘together with’ + tangere ‘to touch.’
