continue 
BrE kənˈtɪnjuː, AmE kənˈtɪnju 
A. intransitive verb 
① (keep happening) «noise, weather, trial» 持续 chíxù (carry on into future) 持续下去 chíxù xiaqu (persist) «symptoms, problems, difficulties, bombing» 持续不断 chíxù bùduàn rain continued falling or to fall 雨下个不停 
② (keep doing) 继续 jìxù to continue doing or to do [something]; 持续做某事 to continue with [something]; 继续做 ‹task› 继续进行 jìxù jìnxíng ‹treatment›he continued to act strangely 他的举止一直很古怪 
③ (keep going) 继续走 jìxù zǒu to continue over/through/across [something] 一直走过/穿过/越过某处 to continue down the road 一直沿着马路走 to continue on one's way 继续走下去 to continue in the belief that … 一直认为… 
④ (extend) 延伸 yánshēn to continue across the desert/to the sea/into the distance «road» 穿过沙漠/延伸到海边/延伸到远方 
⑤ (resume) «noise, conversation» 重新开始 chóngxīn kāishǐ ; «story, TV series» 继续 jìxù (resume speaking) 继续说 jìxù shuō she continued by saying … 她接着说道… 
⑥ (remain) to continue as [something]; 继续担任 jìxù dānrèn ‹manager, CEO›to continue in [something]; 继续做 ‹job› 继续担任 jìxù dānrèn ‹role›to continue at one's post 留任原职 to continue at school 留校 
B.  transitive verb 
① (keep on with) 继续 jìxù ‹relationship, salary, studies, enquiry, journey›
② (resume) 再开始 zài kāishǐ ‹campaign, work›; （中断后）继续 (zhōngduàn hòu)jìxù ‹conversation, screening›‘to be continued’ “待续” ‘continued overleaf/on page 8’ “接下页/第8页” 
③ (resume saying) 继续说 jìxù shuō 'as I was explaining,' he continued “我正在解释时，”他继续说 
④ (retain) 保持 bǎochí ‹tradition, lifestyle, skills›; 保留 bǎoliú ‹measures, standards, culture›to continue a way of life 保持一种生活方式 
continue 
▶verb
1 he was unable to continue with his job: carry on, proceed, go on, keep on, persist, press on, persevere; informal stick, soldier on. ANTONYMS stop.
2 discussions continued throughout the night: go on, carry on, last, extend, be prolonged, run on, drag on. ANTONYMS stop, cease.
3 we are keen to continue this relationship: maintain, keep up, sustain, keep going, keep alive, preserve. ANTONYMS suspend, break off.
4 his willingness to continue in office: remain, stay, carry on, keep going.
5 we continued our conversation after supper: resume, pick up, take up, carry on with, return to, recommence. ANTONYMS end.
