contest 
A.  /BrE ˈkɒntɛst, AmE ˈkɑnˌtɛst
noun 
① (competition) 比赛 bǐsài to enter/hold a contest 参加/举行比赛 
② (struggle) 争夺 zhēngduó (in election) 竞争 jìngzhēng a leadership contest 领导权的争夺 the presidential contest 总统竞选 
B.  /BrE kənˈtɛst, AmE kənˈtɛst, ˈkɑnˌtɛst
transitive verb 
① (object to) 辩驳 biànbó ‹position›; 质疑 zhìyí ‹decision, result›to contest a will 对遗嘱提出质疑 
② (compete for) 争取赢得 zhēngqǔ yíngdé ‹victory, game›a strongly contested seat 激烈争夺的席位 to contest an election 竞选 
contest 
▶noun 
ˈkänˌtest 
an event in which people compete for supremacy in a sport, activity, or particular quality: a gigantic air rifle shooting contest 
a beauty contest. 
• a competition for a political position: the presidential contest. 
• a dispute or conflict: a contest between traditional and liberal views. 
▶verb 
kənˈtest ˈkänˌtest 
[with object]
1 engage in competition to attain (a position of power): she declared her intention to contest the presidency. 
• take part in (a competition or election): a coalition was formed to contest the presidential elections.
2 oppose (an action, decision, or theory) as mistaken or wrong: the former chairman contests his dismissal. 
• engage in dispute about: the issues have been hotly contested. 
PHRASES
no contest
1 chiefly US another term for nolo contendere: he pleaded no contest to two misdemeanor counts.
2 a competition, comparison, or choice of which the outcome is a foregone conclusion: when the two teams faced each other it was no contest. 
• a decision by the referee to declare a boxing match invalid on the grounds that one or both of the boxers are not making serious efforts.DERIVATIVES contestable 
kənˈtestəb(ə)l 
adjective. contester 
kənˈtestər, ˈkänˌtes- 
nounORIGIN late 16th century (as a verb in the sense ‘swear to, attest’): from Latin contestari ‘call upon to witness, initiate an action (by calling witnesses),’ from con- ‘together’ + testare ‘to witness.’ The senses ‘wrangle, strive, struggle for’ arose in the early 17th century, whence the current noun and verb senses.
