convert 
A.  /BrE kənˈvəːt, AmE kənˈvərt
transitive verb 
① (change into sth. else) 转变 zhuǎnbiàn to convert the country from a primitive society to a near-industrial one 使这个国家从原始社会转变成接近工业化的社会 
② (modify) 改装 gǎizhuāng ‹vehicle, appliance›
③ Mathematics 换算 huànsuàn ‹measurement, weight, currency›Computing 转换 zhuǎnhuàn Finance 兑换 duìhuàn ‹currency›
④ Architecture 改建 gǎijiàn ‹building›
⑤ Religion, Politics 使改变信仰 shǐ gǎibiàn xìnyǎng to convert [somebody] to [something]; 使某人皈依某信仰 
⑥ Sport 赢得…的附加分 yíngdé… de fùjiāfēn to convert a touchdown 触地得分后赢得附加分 to convert a try 把球踢过球门赢得附加分 
B.  /BrE kənˈvəːt, AmE kənˈvərt
intransitive verb 
① (change) «person, country, matter» 转变 zhuǎnbiàn Britain converted to decimal currency in 1971 英国于1971年改用十进位制货币 
② (be convertible) (in use) 可改变用途 kě gǎibiàn yòngtú (in form) 可改变形式 kě gǎibiàn xíngshì to convert to or into [something]; 可改变成某物 this sofa does not convert 这个长沙发不能改作睡床 
③ Religion, Politics 改变信仰 gǎibiàn xìnyǎng he converted from atheism to Zen Buddhism 他从信仰无神论转为皈依禅宗 
④ Sport 赢得附加分 yíngdé fùjiāfēn 
C.  /BrE ˈkɒnvəːt, AmE ˈkɑnˌvərt
noun 
① Religion 皈依者 guīyīzhě 
② Politics 改变信仰者 gǎibiàn xìnyǎng zhě 
convert 
▶verb 
kənˈvərt 

1 [with object] cause to change in form, character, or function: production processes that converted raw material into useful forms. 
• [no object] change or be able to change from one form to another: the seating converts to a double or two single beds. 
• [no object] change one's religious faith or other beliefs: at sixteen he converted to Catholicism. 
• persuade (someone) to do this: he was converted in his later years to the socialist cause. 
• change (money, stocks, or units in which a quantity is expressed) into others of a different kind: the figures have been converted at $0.545 to the Dutch guilder. 
• adapt (a building) to make it suitable for a new purpose: the space can be easily converted into a home office 
(as adjective converted) : they lived in a converted chicken house. 
• Logic transpose the subject and predicate of (a proposition) according to certain rules to form a new proposition by inference.
2 [with object] score from (a penalty kick, pass, or other opportunity) in a sport or game. 
• [no object] American Football score an extra point or points after having scored a touchdown by kicking a goal (one point) or running another play into the end zone (two points). 
• [no object] American Football advance the ball far enough during a down to earn a first down: the Oilers converted on over half of their third downs. 
▶noun 
ˈkänˌvərt 
a person who has been persuaded to change their religious faith or other beliefs: he is a recent convert to the church. 
PHRASES
convert something to one's own use Law wrongfully make use of another's property.ORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘turn around, send in a different direction’): from Old French convertir, based on Latin convertere ‘turn around,’ from con- ‘altogether’ + vertere ‘turn.’
