cool 
BrE kuːl, AmE kul 

A.  adjective 
① (moderately cold) 凉的 liáng de ‹water, wind, skin›; 凉快的 liángkuai de ‹place, day, dress›(refreshing) 凉爽的 liángshuǎng de ‹breeze, weather›to feel/look/keep cool 感觉/看上去/保持清凉 to keep an engine cool 使发动机保持冷却 ‘keep or store in a cool place’ “贮存于阴凉处” 
② (calm) 镇静的 zhènjìng de ‹person›; 冷静的 lěngjìng de ‹judgement›to stay or keep cool 保持镇静 to keep a cool head 保持头脑冷静 a cool customer colloquial 冷静的人 to play it cool (stay calm) 不露声色 (be indifferent) 无动于衷 → collected 
② 
③ (aloof) 冷淡的 lěngdàn de ‹person, manner›to be cool with or towards [somebody]; 对某人冷淡 to be cool about [something]; 对某事物冷漠 
④ colloquial (casually confident) 潇洒自信的 xiāosǎ zìxìn de ‹person, manner›
⑤ (of colours) 使人感到凉爽的 shǐ rén gǎndào liángshuǎng de ‹blue, green›a cool colour/shade 冷色/冷色调 
⑥ colloquial (for emphasis) 整整的 zhěngzhěng de a cool million dollars 整整100万美元 
⑦ colloquial (fashionable) 很酷的 hěn kù de ‹person, clothes›(great) 很棒的 hěn bàng de it's not cool to smoke 抽烟并不酷 
B.  transitive verb 
① (make cool) 使变凉 shǐ biànliáng to cool the building/[somebody's] brow 给这栋楼/某人的前额降温 to cool the pan/engine 使锅/发动机冷却 
② (calm) 使…平静下来 shǐ… píngjìng xialai ‹emotions, excitement›; 使…冷静下来 shǐ… lěngjìng xialai ‹person›; 平息 píngxī ‹anger›to cool [somebody's] ardour/passion/enthusiasm 给某人的热情降温 cool it! colloquial (be calm) 冷静点！ (stop it) 住手！ 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (become cool) «air, tea, building» 变凉 biànliáng ; «pan, engine» 冷却 lěngquè the metal contracts as it cools 金属遇冷收缩 
② (calm) «passion» 平静下来 píngjìng xialai ; «love» 冷淡下来 lěngdàn xialai ; «anger» 平息 píngxī tempers have cooled a bit 大家的气消了一点 
D.  nounUncountable
① (coolness) the cool 凉快处 (cool air) 凉气 liángqì the cool of the water/cave 水/山洞的凉爽 the cool of the evening 夜晚的凉爽 
② colloquial (calm) to keep one's cool 保持冷静 bǎochí lěngjìng to lose one's cool (get excited) 激动起来 jīdòng qilai (get angry) 发火 fāhuǒ (get frantic) 惊慌失措 jīnghuāng shīcuò PHRASAL VERBS cool down 
A.  transitive verb[cool somebody/something down, cool down somebody/something] 
① (make cool) «breeze» 使…感到凉快 shǐ… gǎndào liángkuai ‹person›; 使…变凉 shǐ… biànliáng ‹air, building, tea›; 冷却 lěngquè ‹pan, engine›
② (calm) 使…平静下来 shǐ… píngjìng xialai ‹person›; 平息 píngxī ‹situation›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (become cool) «air, building, tea» 变凉 biànliáng ; «pan, engine» 冷却 lěngquè to do [something] to cool down «person» 做某事凉快凉快 
② (become calmer) «person, situation» 平静下来 píngjìng xialai ; «tensions» 缓和 huǎnhé cool down! 镇静点！ cool off 
A.  transitive verb[cool somebody/something off, cool off somebody/something] 
① (make cool) «breeze» 使…感到凉快 shǐ… gǎndào liángkuai ‹person›; 使…变凉 shǐ… biànliáng ‹air, building, tea›; 冷却 lěngquè ‹pan, engine›to do [something] to cool oneself off 做某事使自己凉快 
② (make calmer) 使…平静下来 shǐ… píngjìng xialai ‹person›; 平息 píngxī ‹situation›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (become cool) 变凉 biànliáng to do [something] to cool off «person» 做某事凉快凉快 
② (become calmer) «person, situation» 平静下来 píngjìng xialai to cool off towards [somebody]; 对某人冷淡下来 
cool 
ko͞ol

▶adjective
1 of or at a fairly low temperature: it'll be a cool afternoon 
the wind kept them cool. 
• soothing or refreshing because of its low temperature: a cool drink in the leafy shade 
figurative : the bathroom was all glass and cool, muted blues. 
• (especially of clothing) keeping one from becoming too hot: wear your cool, comfortable shirts. 
• showing no friendliness toward a person or enthusiasm for an idea or project: he gave a cool reception to the suggestion for a research center. 
• free from excitement or anxiety: he prided himself on keeping a cool head 
she seems cool, calm, and collected. 
• (of jazz, especially modern jazz) restrained and relaxed.
2 informal fashionably attractive or impressive: I always wore sunglasses to look cool. 
• excellent: [as exclamation] : a computer you didn't even have to plug in. Cool! 
• used to express acceptance or agreement: if people want to freak out at our clubs, that's cool.
3 (a cool ——) informal used to emphasize a specified quantity or amount, especially of money: a cool $15,000 to buy the franchise. 
▶noun
1 (the cool) a fairly low temperature: the cool of the night air. 
• a time or place at which the temperature is pleasantly low: the cool of the evening.
2 calmness; composure: he recovered his cool and then started laughing at us.
3 the quality of being fashionably attractive or impressive: all the cool of high fashion. 
▶verb become or cause to become less hot: [no object] : we dived into the river to cool off 
figurative : his feelings for her took a long time to cool 
[with object] : cool the pastry for five minutes. 
• become or cause to become calm or less excited: [no object] : after I'd cooled off, I realized I was being irrational 
[with object] : George was trying to cool him down. 
• (cool down) recover from strenuous physical exertion by doing gentle stretches and exercises; warm down. 
• [usually in imperative] (cool it) informal behave in a less excitable manner: “Cool it and tell me why you're so ecstatic.” 
PHRASES
cool one's heels be kept waiting. keep (or lose) one's cool informal maintain (or fail to maintain) a calm and controlled attitude. play it cool see play. DERIVATIVES coolish adjectiveORIGIN Old English cōl (noun), cōlian (verb), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch koel, also to cold .
