corner 
BrE ˈkɔːnə, AmE ˈkɔrnər 

A.  noun 
① (of page, table, field, mouth, eye) 角 jiǎo (of room, box, garden) 角落 jiǎoluò a corner table/seat 角落的桌子/座位 to fold [something] (from) corner to corner 把某物对角折叠 to watch/see [somebody]/[something] out of the corner of one's eye 用眼角余光观察/瞟见某人/某事物 
② (of street) 街角 jiējiǎo (bend in road) 拐角 guǎijiǎo a corner house 街角的房屋 the store at or on the corner 街角的商店 (just) round or around the corner literal (around the bend) （就）在街角附近 (nearby) （就）在附近 (jiù)zài fùjìn figurative 即将来临 jíjiāng láilín to turn the corner literal 拐过街角 figurative 好转 hǎozhuǎn to take a corner at 50 mph 以每小时50英里的速度拐弯 to cut (off) a/the corner 抄近路 to cut corners figurative 图省事 
③ (remote place) 偏远地区 piānyuǎn dìqū the four corners of the earth/world 世界各地 in a remote corner of India 在印度的一个偏远地区 a quiet corner 僻静的地方 in the dark corners of his mind 在他隐秘的思想深处 
④ (difficult situation) 困境 kùnjìng to be in a corner 陷入困境 to back or force or drive [somebody] into a corner 把某人逼进困境 to paint or box oneself into a corner 使自己陷入困境 
⑤ Sport (kick, shot) 角球 jiǎoqiú 
⑥ Sport (of boxing ring) 场角 chǎngjiǎo 
⑦ Busn (monopoly) 垄断 lǒngduàn a corner on [something]; 对某物品的囤积居奇 to have a corner on iron ore 垄断铁矿石 
B.  transitive verb 
① (trap) 使…落入圈套 shǐ… luòrù quāntào ‹person›; 使…落入陷阱 shǐ… luòrù xiànjǐng ‹animal›; figurative 使…陷入困境 shǐ… xiànrù kùnjìng ‹person›to be cornered (in [something]) （在某处）被逼得走投无路 a cornered animal 困兽 
② Busn (monopolize) 垄断 lǒngduàn ‹commodity›to corner the market in [something] 垄断某商品的市场 
C.  intransitive verb «driver, vehicle» 转弯 zhuǎnwān 
corner 
ˈkôrnər

▶noun
1 a place or angle where two or more sides or edges meet: Jan sat at one corner of the table. 
• an area inside a room, box, or square-shaped space, near the place where two or more edges or surfaces meet: he drove the ball into the corner of the net. 
• a place where two streets meet: an apartment on the corner of 199th Street and Amsterdam Avenue 
[as modifier] : the corner house. 
• a difficult or awkward situation: he found himself backed into a corner. 
• first or third base on a baseball diamond: two outs, with runners on the corners. 
• a sharp bend in a road: serious racers want a car that is fast going into and out of the corners.
2 a part, region, or area, especially one regarded as secluded or remote: they descended on the college from all corners of the world 
his wisdom was disseminated to the four corners of the earth 
figurative : she couldn't bear journalists prying into every corner of her life. 
• a position in which one dominates the supply of a particular commodity.
3 short for corner kick.
4 Boxing & Wrestling each of the diagonally opposite ends of the ring, where a contestant rests between rounds. 
• a contestant's supporters or seconds: Hodkinson was encouraged by his corner.
5 Baseball each of the two parallel sides of home plate, which are perceived as defining the vertical edges of the strike zone. 
▶verb [with object]
1 force (a person or animal) into a place or situation from which it is hard to escape: the man was eventually cornered by police dogs. 
• detain (someone) in conversation, typically against their will: I managed to corner Gary for fifteen minutes.
2 control (a market) by dominating the supply of a particular commodity: whether they will corner the market in graphics software remains to be seen. 
• establish a corner in (a commodity): you cornered vanadium and made a killing.
3 [no object] (of a vehicle or driver) go around a bend in a road: no squeal is evident from the tires when cornering fast. 
PHRASES
(just) around (or round) the corner very near: there's a pharmacy around the corner. cut corners see cut. in someone's corner acting as a second, to a boxer. 
• on someone's side; giving someone support and encouragement. on (or at or in) every corner everywhere: there were saloons on every corner 
it's difficult to readjust when the past assaults you at every corner 
young executives sprouted in every corner. see someone/something out of (or from) the corner of one's eye see someone or something at the edge of one's field of vision. turn the corner see turn. ORIGIN Middle English: from Anglo-Norman French, based on Latin cornu ‘horn, tip, corner.’
