court 
BrE kɔːt, AmE kɔrt 

A.  noun 
① Countable and uncountableLaw 法庭 fǎtíng to appear in court 出庭 a court appearance 出庭 to bring [something]/[somebody] to court 把某物/某人带上法庭 to take [somebody] to court 起诉某人 to go to court over [something] 为某事打官司 to put/rule [something] out of court 摒弃某事 to laugh [something] out of court 对某事一笑了之 to settle [something] out of court 庭外解决某事 in open/closed court 公开/不公开审理 
② Uncountable(people present in court) 出庭人员 chūtíng rényuán to address the court 当庭发言 
③ Countable and uncountable(of sovereign) 宫廷 gōngtíng to be presented at court 朝见君主 to hold court literal 主持御前会议 figurative (entertain admirers) 接待仰慕者 jiēdài yǎngmùzhě (entertain visitors) 接待来宾 jiēdài láibīn 
④ CountableSport 球场 qiúchǎng to be on court 在场上 the ball is in [somebody's] court figurative 轮到某人作出反应了 
⑤ = courtyard 
B.  transitive verb 
① (woo) «man» 向…求爱 xiàng… qiú'ài ‹woman›; «male animal» 向…求偶 xiàng… qiú'ǒu ‹female animal›
② (seek favour with) 巴结 bājie ‹director, leader›
③ (try hard to win) 力图获得 lìtú huòdé ‹applause, favour›
④ (risk incurring) 招致 zhāozhì ‹defeat, disaster›
C.  intransitive verb 恋爱 liàn'ài a courting couple 恋爱中的情侣 in our courting days 在我们恋爱的日子里 
court 
kôrt

▶noun
1 (also court of law) a tribunal presided over by a judge, judges, or a magistrate in civil and criminal cases: a settlement was reached during the first sitting of the court 
she will take the matter to court 
[as modifier] : a court case. 
• the place where a court meets. 
• (the court) the judge or judges presiding at a court.
2 a quadrangular area, either open or covered, marked out for ball games such as tennis or basketball: I prefer an indoor court. 
• a quadrangular area surrounded by a building or group of buildings. 
• a subdivision of a building, usually a large hall extending to the ceiling with galleries and staircases.
3 the establishment, retinue, and courtiers of a sovereign: the emperor is shown with his court. 
• a sovereign and his or her councilors, constituting a ruling power: relations between the king and the imperial court. 
• a sovereign's residence. 
▶verb [with object] dated be involved with romantically, typically with the intention of marrying: he was courting a girl from the neighboring farm 
[no object] : we went to the movies when we were courting. 
• (of a male bird or other animal) try to attract (a mate). 
• pay special attention to (someone) in an attempt to win their support or favor: Western politicians courted the leaders of the newly independent states. 
• go to great lengths to win (favorable attention): he never had to court the approval of the political elite. 
• risk incurring (misfortune) because of the way one behaves: he has often courted controversy. 
PHRASES
go to court take legal action. hold court see hold1. in court appearing as a party or an attorney in a court of law. out of court
1 before a legal hearing can take place: they are trying to settle the squabble out of court 
[as adjective] : an out-of-court settlement.
2 treated as impossible or not worthy of consideration: the price would put it out of court for most private buyers. pay court to pay flattering attention to someone in order to win favor.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French cort, from Latin cohors, cohort- ‘yard or retinue.’ The verb is influenced by Old Italian corteare,Old French courtoyer. Compare with cohort .
