cover 
BrE ˈkʌvə, AmE ˈkəvər 

A.  transitive verb 
① (put sth. over) 遮盖 zhēgài ‹table, legs›; 遮挡 zhēdǎng ‹window›; 捂住 wǔzhù ‹ears, face›; 包 bāo ‹wound›; 盖住 gàizhù ‹hole›to cover [somebody]/[something] with [something]; 用某物盖上某人/某物 cover your mouth when you yawn 打哈欠时要捂住嘴 a skirt that covers the knees 长过膝盖的裙子 to cover the pot 盖上锅盖 
② (use to decorate) 给…加套子 gěi…jiā tàozi ‹sofa, chair›; 给…加封皮 gěi…jiā fēngpí ‹book›(form outer layer of) «fur, skin, bark» 包裹 bāoguǒ ‹animal, tree›to cover [something] with or in [something]; 用某物把某物包起来 to be covered with or in [something]; 被某物裹着 fish are covered in scales 鱼全身是鳞 birds' eggs are covered with a hard shell 禽蛋有一层硬壳 
③ (spread over) 涂 tú (lay over) 铺 pū (be spread over) «mud, leaves» 覆盖 fùgài ‹ground, person, animal›; «mist, sand, dust» 蒙上 méngshang (be in many parts of) «litter, marks, blossom» 遍布 biànbù ‹ground›to cover [somebody]/[something] with or in [something]; 用某物涂 ‹hands, face, cake›a gust of wind covered everything with sand 一阵风吹过，让一切都蒙上了一层沙 a van covered her with muddy water 一辆货车溅了她一身泥水 the floor had been covered with concrete 地面铺了混凝土 to be covered with or in [something]; 覆盖着某物 flood water covered the fields 洪水淹没了田地 clouds covered the sky 天上阴云密布 her face was covered in blood 她满脸是血 she covered the walls of her bedroom with photos 她在卧室的墙壁上贴满了照片 the bushes were covered with fruit 矮树丛结满了果实 
④ (extend over) «property, town» 占 zhàn ‹site, area›the estate covers 24 acres 这处房产占地24英亩 the damage caused by the earthquake covered a wide area 地震造成了大范围的损失 
⑤ (travel over) 走过 zǒuguo ‹ground, distance›we covered a lot of ground during our holiday 我们休假期间走了很多地方 to cover 50 miles a day 一天走50英里 
⑥ (deal with, treat) 处理 chǔlǐ the issue of taxation was inadequately covered in the minister's speech 部长的演讲对税收问题论述不够充分 research that covers a wide field 涉及范围很广的研究 we'll cover intransitive verbs in the next lesson 我们将在下一堂课讲不及物动词 to cover the entire syllabus 涵盖课程大纲上的所有教学内容 do the instructions cover how to dismantle the motor? 使用说明里写了如何拆卸发动机吗？ 
⑦ (include) 包括 bāokuò that price covers everything 那个价格包括了所有费用 the bill covers all the work done so far 本账单记录了到目前为止已完成的所有工作的花费 all mechanical parts are covered by the guarantee 所有的机械部件都在保修之列 
⑧ (be responsible for) 负责 fùzé ‹area, activity, people›the sales department covers advertising 销售部负责广告事务 
⑨ (report on) 报道 bàodào ‹news, event›Peter will cover the human angle 彼得将从人性角度进行报道 the wedding will be covered live on Channel
4 第4频道将对婚礼进行直播 
⑩ (relate to) «rule, act» 适用于 shìyòng yú ‹situation, organization, person›
⑪ (pay for) 支付 zhīfù ‹outgoings, loss›they gave us £50 to cover our travelling expenses 他们给了我们50英镑支付旅费 how much do you need? — £20 should cover it 你需要多少钱？──20英镑应该够了 to cover one's costs 支付费用 
⑫ Finance (protect) «insurance, policy, company» 为…保险 wèi… bǎoxiǎn ‹person, property›; (provide insurance against) 保…险 bǎo… xiǎn ‹loss, accident, damage›the camera is covered under my household insurance 这部照相机属于我的家庭财产保险的承保项目 to cover [somebody]/[something] for or against [something]/doing [something]; 为…保某方面的险/做某事保险 are you covered for fire and theft? 你投保火险和盗险了吗？ the insurance doesn't cover wear and tear 日常磨损不在保险范围之内 
⑬ (protect with gunfire) 火力掩护 huǒlì yǎnhù ‹person, advance, retreat›to cover oneself figurative «person, organization» 自我保护 to cover oneself against [something]; 对某事留后手 to cover oneself by doing [something]; 通过做某事来保护自己 to cover one's back or especially AmE ass figurative colloquial 留后手 
⑭ (threaten with gun) 用枪瞄准 yòng qiāng miáozhǔn ‹person›to keep/have got [somebody] covered 用枪瞄准某人 
⑮ Sport (mark) 盯防 dīngfáng ‹opponent›(take care of) 防守 fángshǒu ‹area›(assist, guard) 掩护 yǎnhù ‹player›
⑯ (conceal or disguise) 掩饰 yǎnshì ‹emotions, ignorance, embarrassment, guilt›; 掩盖 yǎngài ‹facts, noise›have a mint: it'll cover the smell of alcohol on your breath 来一颗薄荷糖：它会去掉你嘴里的酒味 
⑰ (cause to affect) «action, circumstance» 给…带来影响 gěi… dàilái yǐngxiǎng ‹person, organization›to cover [somebody]/oneself with or in [something]; 使某人/自己蒙受某事 he returned covered with glory 他载誉归来 we were covered with shame 我们蒙受了耻辱 
⑱ Music (make version of) 翻唱 fānchàng ‹song, tune›
⑲ Zoology (mate with) «male» 与…交配 yǔ…jiāopèi ‹female›
B.  intransitive verb 顶替 dǐngtì can you get someone to cover (for me) while I'm on holiday? 我休假时你能找人顶替（我）一下吗？ 
C.  noun 
① Countable(sth. laid over) 覆盖物 fùgàiwù (sth. fitting over) 套子 tàozi (for duvet) 被套 bèitào (for CD) 封套 fēngtào (lid) 盖子 gàizi a protective cover 护套 
② Countable(of book, magazine) 封皮 fēngpí the front/back cover 封面/封底 to make the cover of Time 上《时代》杂志的封面 to read [something] from cover to cover 从头至尾阅读某物 cover design 封面设计 
③ Uncountable(shelter) 躲避处 duǒbìchù to give [somebody] cover 给某人提供庇护所 to take cover 躲避 to be/get under cover 在掩蔽下/找到掩护 under cover of [something] 在某物的掩护下 to leave under cover of darkness 在黑暗的掩护下离开 to break cover 冲出隐蔽处 
④ Countable and uncountable(front) 掩护 yǎnhù (false identity) 掩护身份 yǎnhù shēnfèn a cover for [something]; 某事物的掩护 under cover of [something] 打着某事的幌子 to blow [somebody's] cover colloquial (discover) 揭穿某人的伪装 (reveal) 暴露某人的身份 to work under cover 做秘密工作 a cover occupation/operation 掩护身份的职业/掩护行动 a cover name/identity 假名/掩护身份 
⑤ UncountableMilitary 火力掩护 huǒlì yǎnhù to provide air cover 提供空中掩护 to give ([somebody]) cover 给予（某人）掩护 
⑥ Uncountable(substitute) 代班人员 dàibān rényuán (substitution) 代替工作 dàitì gōngzuò emergency cover 急救替班 
⑦ Uncountable BrE Finance (insurance) 保险 bǎoxiǎn ; (sum of money) 保额 bǎo é to give or provide cover for or against [something] 提供某事故的保险 fire/accident cover 火灾险/事故险 full cover 全险 
⑧ Countable(table setting) 全套餐具 quántào cānjù 
⑨ Countable = cover version 
D.  covers noun plural (quilt) 被子 bèizi (bedspread) 床罩 chuángzhào (blankets) 毯子 tǎnzi PHRASAL VERBS cover for transitive verb [cover for somebody] 顶替 dǐngtì ‹person›cover in transitive verb [cover in something, cover something in] 给…装顶棚 gěi… zhuāng dǐngpéng ‹area, passage›cover over transitive verb [cover something over, cover over something] (for concealment, protection) 盖住 gàizhù ‹table, body, hole›; 覆盖 fùgài ‹picture, word›to cover [something] over with [something], to cover over [something] with [something]; 用某物盖住某物 she covered the mistake over with Tippex 她用修改液涂掉了错字 cover up 
A.  [cover somebody/something up, cover up somebody/something] transitive verb (for concealment, warmth) 盖住 gàizhù ‹mark, corpse, person, animal›(spread over) «snow» 覆盖 fùgài ‹footprints›to cover [somebody]/[something] up with [something], to cover up [somebody]/[something] with [something]; 用某物盖住某人/某物 he covered up the answer with his hand 他用手遮住了答案 she covered up the sleeping child with a blanket 她给熟睡的孩子盖上了毛毯 to cover oneself up (with [something]); （用某物）裹住自己 we'd better cover ourselves up: it's cold outside 我们最好裹严实点儿，外面很冷 
B.  [cover up something, cover something up] transitive verb (keep secret) 掩盖 yǎngài ‹mistake, scandal, crime, truth›(disguise) 掩饰 yǎnshì ‹emotions, ignorance, guilt›there's nothing to cover up 没什么可掩盖的 he laughed to cover up his embarrassment 他哈哈大笑，掩饰自己的尴尬 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (put clothes on) 穿上衣服 chuānshang yīfu it's advisable to cover up during the hottest part of the day 在一天最热的时候最好裹住身体 
② (conceal truth) «person, government» 掩盖真相 yǎngài zhēnxiàng to cover up for [somebody]/[something]; 替某人/某事物掩饰 he's always covering up for his younger brother 他对弟弟总是很护短 
cover 
ˈkəvər

▶verb [with object]
1 put something such as a cloth or lid on top of or in front of (something) in order to protect or conceal it: the table had been covered with a checked tablecloth 
she covered her face with a pillow. 
• envelop in a layer of something, especially dirt: he was covered in mud 
figurative : she was covered in confusion. 
• scatter a layer of loose material over (a surface, especially a floor), leaving it completely obscured: the barn floor was covered in straw. 
• lie over or adhere to (a surface), as decoration or to conceal something: masonry paint will cover hairline cracks. 
• extend over (an area): the grounds covered eight acres. 
• travel (a specified distance): it took them four days to cover 150 miles.
2 deal with (a subject) by describing or analyzing its most important aspects or events: a sequence of novels that will cover the period from 1968 to the present. 
• investigate, report on, or publish or broadcast pictures of (an event): NBC is covering the Olympics. 
• work in, have responsibility for, or provide services to (a particular area): development officers whose work would cover a large area. 
• (of a rule or law) apply to (a person or situation).
3 (of a sum of money) be enough to pay (a bill or cost): there are grants to cover the cost of materials for loft insulation. 
• (of insurance) protect against a liability, loss, or accident involving financial consequences: your contents are now covered against accidental loss or damage in transit. 
• (cover oneself) take precautionary measures so as to protect oneself against future blame or liability: one reason doctors take temperatures is to cover themselves against negligence claims.
4 disguise the sound or fact of (something) with another sound or action: Louise laughed to cover her embarrassment. 
• [no object] (cover for) disguise the illicit absence or wrongdoing of (someone) in order to spare them punishment: if the sergeant wants to know where you are, I'll cover for you. 
• [no object] (cover for) temporarily take over the job of (a colleague) in their absence: during August ministers cover for other ministers.
5 aim a gun at (someone) in order to prevent them from moving or escaping. 
• protect (an exposed person) by shooting at an enemy: (as adjective covering) : the jeeps retreated behind spurts of covering fire. 
• (of a fortress, gun, or cannon) have (an area) within range. 
• (in team games) take up a position ready to defend against (an opposing player). 
• Baseball be in position at (a base) ready to catch a thrown ball.
6 Bridge play a higher card on (a high card) in a trick: the ploy will fail if the ten is covered 
[no object] : East covered with his queen.
7 record or perform a new version of (a song) originally performed by someone else: other artists who have covered the song include U2.
8 (of a male animal, especially a stallion) copulate with (a female animal), especially as part of a commercial transaction between the owners of the animals. 
▶noun
1 a thing that lies on, over, or around something, especially in order to protect or conceal it: a seat cover. 
• a thin solid object that seals a container or hole; a lid: a manhole cover. 
• a thick protective outer part or page of a book or magazine: her life was captured between hard covers in her 1986 autobiography. 
• Philately a card or envelope that has traveled through the mail or that contains postal markings. 
• (the covers) bedclothes: she burrowed down beneath the covers.
2 physical shelter or protection sought by people in danger: the sirens wailed and people ran for cover 
store seats under cover before the bad weather sets in. 
• undergrowth, trees, or other vegetation used as a shelter by animals: the standing crops of game cover 
a landscape bare of woodland except for neat little fox covers. See also covert ( sense
1 of the noun). 
• an activity or organization used as a means of concealing an illegal or secret activity: a restaurant is run as a cover for a money-laundering operation. 
• [in singular] an identity or activity adopted by a person, typically a spy, to conceal their true activities: he was worried that their cover was blown. 
• military support given when someone is in danger from or being attacked by an enemy: they agreed to provide additional naval cover. 
• Ecology the amount of ground covered by a vertical projection of the vegetation, usually expressed as a percentage.
3 short for cover charge.
4 a place setting at a table in a restaurant. [rendering French couvert .]
5 (also cover version) a recording or performance of a previously recorded song made especially to take advantage of the original's success. 
PHRASES
break cover suddenly leave a place of shelter, especially vegetation, when being hunted or pursued. cover one's ass (or back) informal foresee and avoid the possibility of attack or criticism.cover all bases (or cover all the bases) deal with something thoroughly: for the prospective homebuilder, this book covers all bases 
if you meet these basic requirements, you 'll cover all bases. cover one's position purchase securities in order to be able to fulfill a commitment to sell. cover one's tracks conceal evidence of what one has done. cover the waterfront North American informal include a wide range of things; cover every aspect of something: while half the dishes are Italian, the kitchen covers the waterfront from Greece to Morocco. from cover to cover from beginning to end of a book or magazine. take cover protect oneself from attack by ducking down into or under a shelter: if the bombing starts, take cover in the basement. under cover of concealed by: the yacht made landfall under cover of darkness. 
• while pretending to do something: Moran watched every move under cover of reading the newspaper. under plain cover in an envelope or parcel without any marks to identify the sender. under separate cover in a separate envelope.PHRASAL VERBS cover something up put something on, over, or around something, especially in order to conceal or disguise it. 
• try to hide or deny the fact of an illegal or illicit action or activity.DERIVATIVES coverable adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: from Old French covrir, from Latin cooperire, from co- (expressing intensive force) + operire ‘to cover.’ The noun is partly a variant of covert .
