crash 
BrE kraʃ, AmE kræʃ 

A.  intransitive verb 
① (make noise) «cymbals» 锵锵作响 qiāngqiāng zuòxiǎng ; «thunder, explosive» 发出轰鸣声 fāchū hōngmíng shēng 
② (fall) «tree» 哗啦一声倒下 huālā yī shēng dǎoxia ; «dishes» 哗啦一声破碎 huālā yī shēng pòsuì to come crashing down on or upon [somebody] «ceiling» 哗啦一声砸到某人 figurative «life» 使某人崩溃 shǐ mǒu rén bēngkuì 
③ (collide) «cars» 碰撞 pèngzhuàng ; «planes» 坠毁 zhuìhuǐ to crash into [something] 撞到某物上 to crash into each other 相撞 
④ (move loudly) 声响很大地猛冲 shēngxiǎng hěn dà de měng chōng to crash into a room 动静很大地闯进房间 
⑤ Finance «market» 暴跌 bàodiē ; «firm» 倒闭 dǎobì 
⑥ Computing «computer, system, program» 死机 sǐjī 
B.  transitive verb 
① (involve in accident) 使…坠毁 shǐ… zhuìhuǐ ‹aircraft›; 使…碰撞 shǐ… pèngzhuàng ‹vehicle›
② Auto 使…发出嘎吱声 shǐ… fāchū gāzhī shēng ‹gears›
③ colloquial (gatecrash) 擅自闯入 shànzì chuǎngrù ‹party, event›
C.  noun 
① (noise) 碰撞声 pèngzhuàng shēng the crash of thunder 霹雳声 
② (collision) 碰撞 pèngzhuàng a car/train crash 汽车/火车撞车事故 a plane crash 飞机失事 to have a crash «car, train» 发生碰撞 «aircraft» 失事 shīshì 
③ Finance «market» 暴跌 bàodiē ; «firm» 倒闭 dǎobì 
④ Computing 崩溃 bēngkuì 
D.  adverb 哗啦一声 huālā yī shēng crash went the bolt 霹雳炸响了 crash, bang, wallop colloquial 噼里啪啦一阵巨响 PHRASAL VERB crash out intransitive verbcolloquial 
① (sleep) 入睡 rùshuì 
② (pass out) to be crashed out ［尤指因醉酒或吸毒后] 昏睡过去 hūnshuì guoqu 
crash
1 
kraSH

▶verb
1 [no object] (of a vehicle) collide violently with an obstacle or another vehicle: the stolen car she was riding in crashed into a tree. 
• [with object] cause (a moving object) to collide with an obstacle or another vehicle. 
• (of an aircraft) fall from the sky and violently hit the land or sea: a jet crashed 200 yards from the school. 
• [with object] cause (an aircraft) to fall from the sky and land violently.
2 move or cause to move with force, speed, and sudden loud noise: [no object] : huge waves crashed down on us 
[with object] : she crashed down the telephone receiver. 
• [no object] make a sudden loud, deep noise: the thunder crashed.
3 [no object] informal (of a business, a market, or a price) fall suddenly and disastrously in value: silver prices crashed in early 1980.
4 [no object] Computing (of a machine, system, or software) fail suddenly: the project was postponed because the computer crashed. 
• chiefly North American (of a patient) suffer a cardiac arrest.
5 [with object] informal enter (a party) without an invitation or permission.
6 [no object] informal go to sleep, especially suddenly or in an improvised setting: I'll crash in the back of the van for a couple of hours. 
▶noun
1 a violent collision, typically of one vehicle with another or with an obstacle: a car crash. 
• an instance of an aircraft falling from the sky to hit the land or sea.
2 a sudden loud noise as of something breaking or hitting another object: he slammed the phone down with a crash.
3 a sudden disastrous drop in the value or price of something, especially shares of stock: a stock market crash 
the crash of 1987. 
• the sudden collapse of a business.
4 Computing a sudden failure which puts a system out of action. 
▶adjective done rapidly or urgently and involving a concentrated effort: a crash course in Italian. 
▶adverb with a sudden loud sound: crash went the bolt. 
PHRASES
crash and burn informal come to grief or fail spectacularly.ORIGIN late Middle English: imitative, perhaps partly suggested by craze and dash .
