crawl 
BrE krɔːl, AmE krɔl 

A.  intransitive verb 
① (move) «person, insect» 爬 pá to crawl in/out 爬进/爬出 to crawl out from under [something] 从某物下面爬出来 to crawl into bed 爬上床 to make [somebody's] skin or flesh crawl 使某人起鸡皮疙瘩 
② (move slowly) «person» 缓慢行进 huǎnmàn xíngjìn to crawl along 缓缓前行 
③ (be crowded) to be crawling with [something]; 挤满了某物 jǐmǎnle mǒu wù 
④ colloquial (flatter, behave obsequiously) 巴结 bājie to crawl to [somebody] 对某人低三下四 
B.  noun 
① (swimming stroke) 自由泳 zìyóuyǒng to do or swim the crawl 游自由泳 
② (slow pace) 慢行 màn xíng at a crawl 缓慢行进地 to slow or be reduced to a crawl 减速慢行 
crawl 
krôl

▶verb
1 [no object] (of a person) move forward on the hands and knees or by dragging the body close to the ground: they crawled out from under the table. 
• (of an insect or small animal) move slowly along a surface: the tiny spider was crawling up Nicky's arm. 
• (of a vehicle) move at an unusually slow pace: the traffic was crawling along. 
• swim using the crawl. 
• technical (of paint or other liquid) move after application to form an uneven layer over the surface below: glazes can crawl away from a crack in the piece.
2 [no object] informal behave obsequiously or ingratiatingly in the hope of gaining someone's favor: don't come crawling back to me later when you realize your mistake.
3 (be crawling with) be covered or crowded with insects or people, to an extent that is disgusting or objectionable: the place was crawling with soldiers.
4 [with object] Computing (of a program) systematically visit (a number of web pages) in order to create an index of data: its automated software robots crawl websites, grabbing copies of pages to index. 
▶noun [in singular]
1 an act of moving on one's hands and knees or dragging one's body along the ground: they began the crawl back to their own lines. 
• a slow rate of movement, typically that of a vehicle: he reduced his speed to a crawl.
2 a swimming stroke involving alternate overarm movements and rapid kicks of the legs.
3 a strip or band running across the bottom of a computer or television screen, within which news headlines, public service announcements, and advertisements are continuously scrolled. 
PHRASES
make someone's skin crawl see skin. DERIVATIVES crawlingly adverb. crawly 
ˈkrôlē 
adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: of unknown origin; possibly related to Swedish kravla and Danish kravle .
