cream 
BrE kriːm, AmE krim 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(dairy product) 奶油 nǎiyóu 
② Uncountable(as cosmetic) 护肤霜 hùfūshuāng ; (polish) 膏状物 gāozhuàngwù ; (medication) 乳膏 rǔgāo 
③ Countable(sweet) 奶油糖 nǎiyóutáng 
④ Countable(biscuit) 奶油夹心饼干 nǎiyóu jiāxīn bǐnggān orange cream 橘味奶油夹心饼干 
⑤ Uncountable(soup) cream of tomato/mushroom (soup); 奶油番茄/蘑菇汤 nǎiyóu fānqié/mógu tāng 
⑥ Uncountablefigurative (best) the cream 精华 jīnghuá the cream of the students 尖子学生 jiānzi xuésheng the cream of society 社会精英 shèhuì jīngyīng 
⑦ Uncountable(colour) 米黄色 mǐhuángsè 
B.  adjective (colour) 米黄色的 mǐhuángsè de 
C.  transitive verb 
① Culinary (mash) 在…中拌入奶油 zài… zhōng bànrù nǎiyóu creamed potatoes 奶油拌土豆 
② Culinary (form into a paste) 把…搅成糊状 bǎ… jiǎochéng húzhuàng cream the butter and sugar 把黄油和糖搅拌成糊状 
③ AmE colloquial (defeat heavily) 彻底打败 chèdǐ dǎbài PHRASAL VERB cream off transitive verb [cream off something], [cream something off] 提取 tíqǔ the best pupils are being creamed off 最好的学生正在被挖走 
cream 
krēm

▶noun
1 the thick white or pale yellow fatty liquid that rises to the top when milk is left to stand and that can be eaten as an accompaniment to desserts or used as a cooking ingredient: strawberries and cream 
[as modifier] : a cream sauce. 
• the part of a liquid that gathers at the top. 
• a sauce, soup, dessert, or similar food containing cream or milk or having the consistency of cream: a can of cream of mushroom soup. 
• a candy of a specified flavor that is creamy in texture, typically covered with chocolate: a peppermint cream.
2 a thick liquid or semisolid cosmetic or medical preparation applied to the skin: shaving cream 
moisturizing creams.
3 the very best of a group of people or things: the paper's readership is the cream of American society.
4 a very pale yellow or off-white color: the dress is available in white or cream 
[as modifier] : a cream linen jacket. 
▶verb [with object]
1 work (butter, typically with sugar) to form a smooth soft paste. 
• (usually as adjective creamed) mash (a cooked vegetable) and mix with milk or cream: creamed turnips. 
• add cream to (coffee).
2 rub a cosmetic cream into (the skin): Madge was creaming her face in front of the mirror.
3 informal, chiefly North American defeat (someone) heavily, especially in a sports contest. 
• hit or collide heavily and violently with (someone), especially in a car: she got creamed by a speeding car.
4 [no object] vulgar slang (of a person) be sexually aroused, especially to the point of producing sexual secretions. 
• [with object] moisten (one's underpants) due to sexual arousal. 
PHRASES
the cream of the crop the very best of a particular group of people or things: the researchers and institutions in this network are the cream of the crop.PHRASAL VERBS cream something off take the best of a group of people or things, especially in a way that is considered unfair: the schools cream off some of the better students. 
• make a disproportionate or excessive profit on a transaction.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French cresme, from a blend of late Latin cramum (probably of Gaulish origin) and ecclesiastical Latin chrisma (see chrism) .
