creep 
BrE kriːp, AmE krip 

A.  intransitive verb(past tense, past participle crept) 
① (furtively) 悄悄行进 qiāoqiāo xíngjìn he crept down the stairs 他蹑手蹑脚地下了楼 
② (slowly) 缓慢行进 huǎnmàn xíngjìn the train crept into the station 火车缓缓驶进了车站 
③ (grow along surface) «plant» 蔓生 mànshēng 
④ figurative (progress) 逐渐发展 zhújiàn fāzhǎn the months crept by 几个月慢慢过去了 a blush crept over her face 她的脸渐渐红了起来 
B.  nouncolloquial 
① (weirdo) 讨厌鬼 tǎoyànguǐ he's a creep 他真讨厌 
② BrE (flatterer) 马屁精 mǎpìjīng 
③ to give [somebody] the creeps (frighten or revolt sb.) 使某人心里发毛 shǐ mǒu rén xīn li fāmáo PHRASAL VERBS creep in intransitive verb «errors, changes, feelings» 不知不觉中产生 bù zhī bù jué zhōng chǎnshēng creep into transitive verb [creep into something] «errors, changes» 不知不觉在…中产生 bù zhī bù jué zài… zhōng chǎnshēng to let personal feelings creep into [something] 把个人感情带入某事 creep over transitive verb [creep over somebody] 逐渐影响 zhújiàn yǐngxiǎng tiredness crept over me 我渐渐感到累了 creep up intransitive verb 缓慢增长 huǎnmàn zēngzhǎng house prices are creeping up again 房价又在慢慢上涨 creep up on transitive verb[creep up on somebody] 
① (approach) 悄悄走近 qiāoqiāo zǒujìn don't creep up on me like that! 别那么一声不响地靠近我！ 
② figurative (in time) «event» 渐渐临近 jiànjiàn línjìn 
③ (begin to affect) «fatigue, age» 不知不觉开始影响 bù zhī bù jué kāishǐ yǐngxiǎng old age tends to creep up on us 年老往往不期而至 
creep 
krēp

▶verb (past and past participle crept 
krept
) [no object]
1 move slowly and carefully, especially in order to avoid being heard or noticed: he crept downstairs, hardly making any noise 
they were taught how to creep up on an enemy. 
• (of a thing) move very slowly at an inexorably steady pace: the fog was creeping up from the marsh. 
• (of a plant) grow along the ground or other surface by means of extending stems or branches: (as adjective creeping) : tufts of fine leaves grow on creeping rhizomes. 
• (of a plastic solid) undergo gradual deformation under stress.
2 (creep in/into) (of an unwanted and negative characteristic or fact) occur or develop gradually and almost imperceptibly: errors crept into his game 
(as adjective creeping) : the creeping centralization of power. 
• (creep up) increase slowly but steadily in number or amount: interest rates have been creeping up in the past few weeks. 
▶noun
1 informal a detestable person. 
• a person who behaves in an obsequious way in the hope of advancement.
2 slow movement, especially at a steady but almost imperceptible pace: an attempt to prevent this slow creep of costs. 
• the tendency of a car with automatic transmission to move when in gear without the accelerator being pressed. 
• the gradual downward movement of disintegrated rock or soil due to gravitational forces: stones and earth slowly slip down the slopes by soil creep. 
• the gradual deformation of a plastic solid under stress. 
• gradual bulging of the floor of a mine owing to pressure on the pillars. 
PHRASES
give someone the creeps informal induce a feeling of revulsion or fear in someone.PHRASAL VERBS creep someone out (past and past participle creeped) informal give someone an unpleasant feeling of fear or unease: an anonymous note like that would creep me out.ORIGIN Old English crēopan ‘move with the body close to the ground,’ of Germanic origin; related to Dutch kruipen. Sense
1 of the verb dates from Middle English.
