critical 
BrE ˈkrɪtɪk(ə)l, AmE ˈkrɪdək(ə)l 
adjective 
① (criticizing) 批评性的 pīpíngxìng de ‹comment›; 挑剔的 tiāoti de ‹person›to be critical of [somebody]/[something] 批评某人/某事物 don't be so critical with your children 别对你的孩子那么挑剔 
② (crucial) 关键的 guānjiàn de ‹situation›to be critical to … 对…至关重要 ‹future, success›to be of critical importance 极为重要 
③ Medicine 危重的 wēizhòng de ‹condition, patient›
④ Literature 异文校勘的 yìwén jiàokān de ‹edition›
⑤ (of reviewers) 评论家的 pínglùnjiā de ‹acclaim›to be a critical success 博得评论界好评 
⑥ (discriminating) 有鉴别力的 yǒu jiànbiélì de ‹reader›; 审慎的 shěnshèn de ‹attitude›to take a critical look at [something] 谨慎地看待某事物 
critical 
ˈkridək(ə)l

▶adjective
1 expressing adverse or disapproving comments or judgments: he was critical of many 
U. 
S.  welfare programs.
2 expressing or involving an analysis of the merits and faults of a work of literature, music, or art: she never won the critical acclaim she sought. 
• (of a published literary or musical text) incorporating a detailed and scholarly analysis and commentary: a critical edition of a Bach sonata. 
• involving the objective analysis and evaluation of an issue in order to form a judgement: professors often find it difficult to encourage critical thinking in their students.
3 (of a situation or problem) having the potential to become disastrous; at a point of crisis: the flood waters had not receded, and the situation was still critical. 
• (of a person) extremely ill and at risk of death: he had been in critical condition since undergoing surgery. 
• having a decisive or crucial importance in the success, failure, or existence of something: temperature is a critical factor in successful fruit storage 
getting banks lending again was critical to any recovery.
4 Mathematics & Physics relating to or denoting a point of transition from one state to another. 
• (of a nuclear reactor or fuel) maintaining a self-sustaining chain reaction: the reactor is due to go critical in October. DERIVATIVES criticality 
ˌkridəˈkalədē 
noun critical ( sense 3, sense 4) . criticalness nounORIGIN mid 16th century (in the sense ‘relating to the crisis of a disease’): from late Latin criticus (see critic) .
