crop 
BrE krɒp, AmE krɑp 

A.  noun 
① Agriculture 作物 zuòwù ; (in field) 庄稼 zhuāngjia an export crop 出口作物 the rotation of crops 农作物轮种 
② (harvest) 收成 shōucheng (of animal) 一季的产量 yī jì de chǎnliàng a bumper crop 丰收 to harvest or get in the crop 收获庄稼 a second crop of carrots 第二茬胡萝卜收成 
③ figurative (batch) a crop of applicants/letters; 一批申请人/信件 the cream of the crop 精英 jīngyīng 
④ figurative (abundance) 浓密的头发 nóngmì de tóufa a crop of startling red hair 一头浓密鲜艳的红头发 
⑤ (haircut) 平头 píngtóu 
⑥ Riding (whip) 短马鞭 duǎn mǎbiān ; (whip handle) 鞭把 biānbǎ 
⑦ Zoology 嗉囊 sùnáng 
B.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -pp-) 
① (cut) 剪短 jiǎnduǎn ‹hair, animal's ears›to crop the hedge/lawn 修剪树篱/草坪 
② (eat) «animal» 啃吃 kěnchī ‹grass›
③ Agriculture (harvest) 收获 shōuhuò ‹vegetables, fruit›; 收割 shōugē ‹cereal›; 采摘 cǎizhāi ‹cotton›
④ Agriculture (grow crop(s) on) 在…上播种 zài… shang bōzhǒng ‹land›
⑤ Photography 裁切 cáiqiē ‹photo›
C.  intransitive verb (present participle etc. -pp-) 有收成 yǒu shōucheng to crop well or heavily «field, plant» 丰收 to crop early/late 早熟/晚熟 PHRASAL VERBS crop out intransitive verb «rock formation» 露出地面 lùchū dìmiàn crop up intransitive verb «problem, opportunity» 出现 chūxiàn ; «name, subject» 被提及 bèi tíjí if anything crops up … 如果有突发事件… her name is always cropping up in the papers 报纸上总是提到她的名字 
crop 
kräp

▶noun
1 a cultivated plant that is grown as food, especially a grain, fruit, or vegetable: the main crops were oats and barley. 
• an amount of produce harvested at one time: a heavy crop of fruit. 
• an abundance of something, especially a person's hair: he had a thick crop of wiry hair. 
• the total number of young farm animals born in a particular year on one farm. 
• a group or amount of related people or things appearing or occurring at one time: the current crop of politicians. 
• the entire tanned hide of an animal.
2 a hairstyle in which the hair is cut very short.
3 short for riding crop.
4 a pouch in a bird's gullet where food is stored or prepared for digestion. 
• an organ resembling a bird's crop in an insect or earthworm. 
▶verb (crops, cropping, cropped) [with object]
1 cut (something, especially a person's hair) very short: (as adjective cropped) : cropped blond hair. 
• (of an animal) bite off and eat the tops of (plants): the horse was gratefully cropping the grass. 
• cut the edges of (a photograph) in order to produce a better picture or to fit a given space.
2 harvest (plants or their produce) from a particular area: hay would have been cropped several times through the summer. 
• sow or plant (land) with plants that will produce food or fodder, especially on a large commercial scale: the southern areas are cropped in cotton 
(as adjective cropped) : intensively cropped areas. PHRASAL VERBS crop out (of rock) appear or be exposed at the surface of the earth. crop up appear, occur, or come to one's notice unexpectedly: some urgent business had cropped up.ORIGIN Old English, of Germanic origin; related to German Kropf. From Old English to the late 18th century there existed a sense ‘flower head, ear of corn,’ giving rise to sense
1 of the noun and senses referring to the top of something, whence sense
3 of the noun .
