cross 
BrE krɒs, AmE krɔs 

A.  noun 
① (x shape) 叉形 chāxíng ; School (marking as wrong) 叉 chā ; (+ shape) 十字形 shízìxíng to make one's cross 画押 
② Religion (as jewellery, at altar) 十字架 shízìjià (as monument) 十字形纪念碑 shízìxíng jìniànbēi (as marker) 十字标 shízìbiāo the Cross; ［钉死耶稣基督的] 十字架 shízìjià to make (sign of) the Cross 用手画十字 
③ figurative (sth. to be endured) 磨难 mónàn to take up one's cross 承受磨难 we all have our cross to bear 每人都有自己的苦难要承担 
④ Botany, Zoology 杂交种 zájiāozhǒng ; figurative (mixture) 混合物 hùnhéwù a cross between [something] and [something]; 某物与某物杂交的产物 a cross between [something]/[somebody] and [something]/[somebody]; …与…的混合体 
⑤ the Cross Astronomy 十字星座 shízìxīngzuò 
⑥ (in sewing) on the cross; 沿对角 yán duìjiǎo 
⑦ Sport (in football) 横传 héngchuán (in boxing) 钩拳 gōuquán a right cross 右手钩拳 
B.  adjective 
① (bad-tempered) 坏脾气的 huài píqi de ‹person›(annoyed) 生气的 shēngqì de ‹look, person›to be cross with [somebody]; 生某人的气 to be cross about [something]/doing [something]; 因某事物/做某事生气 to get cross (with [somebody]) （对某人）发脾气 we've never had a cross word 我们从来没吵过架 
② attributive (transverse) 横向的 héngxiàng de ‹timbers›
③ attributive Sport 斜线的 xiéxiàn de ‹shot, volley›
C.  transitive verb 
① (go across) 穿过 chuānguo ‹land, road, bridge›; 渡过 dùguo ‹water, sea›; 越过 yuèguo ‹border, mountains›; «competitor» 冲过 chōngguo ‹finish line›; «aircraft» 飞越 fēiyuè ‹sky›; «meteor» 划过 huáguo ‹sky›to cross the stage 从舞台的一端走到另一端 to cross the floor (of the House) BrE Politics 改变立场加入对手政党 to cross [somebody's] palm (with money) 付钱请某人做事 
② (be across) «road, cable» 横穿 héngchuān ‹land, ceiling›; «bridge» 横跨 héngkuà ‹sea›a line crossed the page 这一页上画了一条横线 
③ figurative (go across) 超越 chāoyuè ‹generation gap›; «look, thought» 掠过 lüèguo ‹face, mind›it crossed my mind that … 我突然想到… 
④ (intersect) «line, road» 与…相交 yǔ… xiāngjiāo ‹line, road, border›(place crosswise) 使…交叉 shǐ…jiāochā ‹feet, wires›to cross each other 相交 xiāngjiāo to cross paths «people» 相遇 to cross one's arms on or over one's chest 双臂交叉于胸前 to cross one's legs 跷起二郎腿 to cross one's eyes 做斗鸡眼 to cross one's fingers literal 交叉食指与中指 figurative 祈求交好运 qíqiú jiāo hǎoyùn 
⑤ (mark) 在…上打叉 zài… shang dǎ chā ‹choice, box›
⑥ (draw line across) 画横线于 huà héngxiàn yú ‹letter t›to cross a cheque BrE 在支票上画线 ［表示只能经银行账户兑现］
⑦ Religion 用手画十字于 yòng shǒu huà shízì yú ‹oneself, thing›I cross my heart (and hope to die) figurative 我发誓（，否则不得好死） 
⑧ (obstruct) 阻挠 zǔnáo ‹person›to cross [somebody] in [something]; 在某事上反对某人 to be crossed in love 恋爱受挫 
⑨ Botany, Zoology 使杂交 shǐ zájiāo to cross [something] with or and [something]; 使…与某物杂交 
⑩ Sport «player» 横传 héngchuán ‹ball›
D.  intransitive verb 
① (go across) «person, vehicle» 穿过 chuānguo ; «boat» 渡过 dùguo ; «bird, aircraft» 飞过 fēiguo ; «meteor» 划过 huáguo to cross from … (to …); (on land, in room) 穿过…（到…） (over or through water) 渡过…（到…） to cross the river on a ferry 乘渡船过河 to cross into Italy 越过边界进入意大利 
② (intersect) «road, legs, beams» 交叉 jiāochā our paths cross frequently 我们经常相遇 
③ (pass in opposite directions) «vehicles, bullets» 迎面而过 yíngmiàn ér guò ; «parcels, orders» 错过 cuòguò we crossed in the hall 我们在大厅里擦肩而过 to cross with [something]; 与某物交错而过 to cross in the post 在邮寄过程中相互错过 
④ Sport «footballer» 传中 chuánzhōng PHRASAL VERBS cross off transitive verb [cross something off], [cross off something] 把…画掉 bǎ… huàdiào ‹name, item›to cross [something]/[somebody] off [something]; 把某物/某人从某处画掉 cross out transitive verb [cross something out], [cross out something] 把…画掉 bǎ… huàdiào ‹text, letter, name›cross over 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (go across) «pedestrian» 过马路 guò mǎlù to cross over to figurative 转变立场投靠 zhuǎnbiàn lìchǎng tóukào ‹political party›
② (intersect) «railway tracks» 相交 xiāngjiāo ; «ideas» 融合 rónghé 
B.  transitive verb[cross over something] 穿过 chuānguo cross through transitive verb [cross something through], [cross through something] 在…上画线 zài… shang huà xiàn ‹text, name›
cross 
krôs

▶noun
1 a mark, object, or figure formed by two short intersecting lines or pieces (+ or ×): types of cross cut a cross in the bark with a sharp knife. 
• a cross (×) used to show that something is incorrect or unsatisfactory.
2 an upright post with a transverse bar, as used in antiquity for crucifixion. 
• (the Cross) the cross on which Jesus was crucified. 
• this, or a representation of it, as an emblem of Christianity: she wore a cross around her neck. 
• a thing that is unavoidable and has to be endured: she's just a cross we have to bear. 
• short for sign of the cross (see sign). 
• a staff surmounted by a cross carried in religious processions. 
• a cross-shaped decoration awarded for personal valor or indicating rank in some orders of knighthood: the Military Cross. 
• (the Cross) the constellation Southern Cross. Also called crux.
3 an animal or plant resulting from crossbreeding; a hybrid: a Devon and Holstein cross. 
• (a cross between) a mixture or compromise of two things: the system is a cross between a monorail and a conventional railroad.
4 a sideways or transverse movement or pass, in particular: 
• Soccer a pass of the ball across the field toward the center close to one's opponents' goal. 
• Boxing a blow delivered across and over the opponent's lead: a right cross. 
▶verb [with object]
1 go or extend across or to the other side of (a path, road, stretch of water, or area): he has crossed the Atlantic twice 
two paths crossed the field 
figurative : a shadow of apprehension crossed her face 
[no object] : we crossed over the bridge. 
• go across or climb over (an obstacle or boundary): he attempted to cross the border into Jordan 
[no object] : we crossed over a fence. 
• [no object] (cross over) (especially of an artist or an artistic style or work) begin to appeal to a different audience, especially a wider one: a talented animator who crossed over to live action.
2 [no object] pass in an opposite or different direction; intersect: the two lines cross at 90°. 
• [with object] cause (two things) to intersect: cross the cables in opposing directions. 
• [with object] place (something) crosswise: Michele sat back and crossed her arms. 
• (of a letter) be sent before receipt of another from the person being written to: our letters crossed.
3 draw a line or lines across; mark with a cross: cross the t's. 
• British mark or annotate (a check), typically by drawing a pair of parallel lines across it, to indicate that it must be paid into a named bank account. 
• (cross someone/something off) delete a name or item on a list as being no longer required or involved: Liz crossed off the days on the calendar. 
• (cross something out) delete an incorrect or inapplicable word or phrase by drawing a line through it.
4 (cross oneself) (of a person) make the sign of the cross in front of one's chest as a sign of Christian reverence or to invoke divine protection.
5 Soccer pass (the ball) across the field toward the center when attacking.
6 cause (an animal of one species, breed, or variety) to interbreed with one of another species, breed, or variety: many animals of the breed were crossed with the closely related Guernsey 
figurative : he behaved like an old regular officer crossed with a mathematician. 
• cross-fertilize (a plant): a hybrid tea was crossed with a polyantha rose.
7 oppose or stand in the way of (someone): no one dared cross him. 
▶adjective annoyed: he seemed to be very cross about something. 
PHRASES
at cross purposes misunderstanding or having different aims from one another: we had been talking at cross purposes. cross one's fingers (or keep one's fingers crossed) put one finger across another as a sign of hoping for good luck. 
• hope that someone or something will be successful. cross the floor British join the opposing side in Parliament. cross my heart (and hope to die) used to emphasize the truthfulness and sincerity of what one is saying, and sometimes reinforced by making a sign of the cross over one's chest.cross one's mind (of a thought) occur to one, especially transiently: it never crossed my mind to leave the tent and live in a house. cross someone's palm with silver often humorous pay someone for a favor or service, especially before having one's fortune told. cross someone's path meet or encounter someone. cross swords have an argument or dispute. get one's wires (or lines) crossed become wrongly connected by telephone. 
• have a misunderstanding. the way of the Cross see way. DERIVATIVES crosser noun. crossly 
ˈkrôslē ˈkräslē 
adverb. crossness 
ˈkrôsnəs 
nounORIGIN late Old English (in the sense ‘monument in the form of a cross’): from Old Norse kross, from Old Irish cros, from Latin crux .
