crown 
BrE kraʊn, AmE kraʊn 
A. noun 
① (of monarch) 王冠 wángguān ; (wreath) 花冠 huāguān a crown of thorns Bible 荆棘冠冕 
② the Crown (monarchy) 王位 wángwèi (reigning monarch) 君主 jūnzhǔ Crown property/estate 王室不动产 wángshì bùdòngchǎn 
③ BrE Law (prosecuting authority) the Crown 公诉方 gōngsùfāng a Crown witness 公诉证人 gōngsù zhèngren 
④ Sport (award, distinction) 桂冠 guìguān to fight for the world heavyweight crown 争夺世界重量级拳击冠军 
⑤ (top of hill, mountain, hat, head) 顶 dǐng the crown of the road 路拱 
⑥ (of bend) 最弯处 zuìwānchù 
⑦ Dentistry (part of tooth) 齿冠 chǐguān (artificial tooth) 假齿冠 jiǎ chǐguān 
B.  transitive verb 
① (invest as monarch) 为…加冕 wèi…jiāmiǎn ‹king, queen›to crown [somebody] king/queen/emperor 立某人为国王/王后/皇帝 
② especially Sport 使…封冠 shǐ… fēngguān ‹victor›she was crowned Wimbledon champion 她被宣布为温布尔登网球公开赛冠军 
③ (cover, form top of) «trees, battlements» 覆盖在…的顶部 fùgài zài… de dǐngbù ‹hill, tower›to be crowned with [something]; 顶部覆盖着某物 beautiful fair hair crowns her head 她长了一头美丽的金发 the Christmas tree was crowned with a gold star 圣诞树顶有一颗金色的星星 
④ to be crowned with [something] (culminate in) 以某事物完美收场 yǐ mǒu shìwù wánměi shōuchǎng the prize crowned her career 这个奖项使她的事业达到了顶峰 her efforts were crowned by success 她的努力获得圆满成功 to crown it all, I won colloquial 最令人高兴的是，我赢了 to crown it all, I lost my key ironic 最糟糕的是，我把钥匙丢了 
⑤ colloquial (hit on the head) «person, object» 打…的头 dǎ… de tóu he nearly crowned himself when he stood up 他站起来时，差点儿碰着头 
⑥ Dentistry «dentist» 为…镶假齿冠 wèi… xiāng jiǎ chǐguān ‹tooth›
crown 
▶noun
1 a jeweled crown: coronet, diadem, circlet, tiara; literary coronal.
2 the world heavyweight crown: title, award, accolade, distinction; trophy, cup, medal, plate, shield, belt, prize; laurels, bays, palm(s).
3 he and his family were loyal servants of the Crown: monarch, sovereign, king, queen, emperor, empress; monarchy, royalty; informal royals.
4 the crown of the hill: top, crest, summit, peak, pinnacle, tip, head, brow, apex.
▶verb
1 David II was crowned in 1331: enthrone, install; invest, induct.
2 a teaching post at Harvard crowned his career: round off, cap, be the climax of, be the culmination of, top off, consummate, perfect, complete, put the finishing touch(es) on/to.
3 a steeple crowned by a gilded cross: top, cap, tip, head, surmount.
4 informal someone crowned him with a poker. See hit (sense
1 of the verb). 
