cruise 
BrE kruːz, AmE kruz 

A.  intransitive verb 
① (sail for pleasure) 乘船游览 chéng chuán yóulǎn 
② (travel slowly) 平稳行驶 píngwěn xíngshǐ to cruise at 10,000 metres/at 500 km/h 在1万米高空/以每小时500公里的速度巡航 
③ especially Sport colloquial (do easily) 轻松获取 qīngsōng huòqǔ to cruise to victory/into first place 轻松获得胜利/第一名 to cruise through an exam 轻而易举通过考试 
④ (travel around unhurriedly) 巡行 xúnxíng (travel around looking for sth.) 徘徊寻觅 páihuái xúnmì a police car cruised past us 一辆巡逻警车从我们身边驶过 taxis cruised about, hoping to pick up fares 出租汽车四处寻觅乘客 
⑤ colloquial «homosexual» 寻觅性伙伴 xúnmìxìng huǒbàn 
B.  transitive verb 
① (sail for pleasure) 乘船游览 chéng chuán yóulǎn 
② (travel slowly) 平稳行驶于 píngwěn xíngshǐ yú ‹sea, oceans, skies›to cruise a sea/river 在海/河上平稳航行 
③ (travel around unhurriedly) «person» 徘徊于 páihuái yú ; «car» 巡行于 xúnxíng yú the teenagers were aimlessly cruising the mall 这些少年漫无目的地在购物中心闲逛 a police car was cruising the streets 一辆警车在街上巡逻 
④ (travel around looking for sth.) «police car, vigilantes, teenagers in cars, taxi» 在…徘徊寻觅 zài… páihuái xúnmì ‹streets, city, area›
⑤ colloquial (homosexual) 在…寻觅性伙伴 zài… xúnmìxìng huǒbàn ‹bars, area›
C.  noun 乘船游览 chéng chuán yóulǎn to be/go on a cruise 在/去乘船游览 
cruise 
kro͞oz

▶verb [no object]
1 sail about in an area without a precise destination, especially for pleasure: they were cruising off the California coast 
[with object] : she cruised the canals of France in a barge. 
• take a vacation on a ship or boat following a predetermined course, usually calling in at several ports. 
• (of a vehicle or person) travel or move slowly around without a specific destination in mind: a police van cruised past us 
[with object] : teenagers were aimlessly cruising the mall. 
• informal wander about a place in search of a casual sexual partner: he spends his time cruising and just hanging out in New Orleans 
[with object] : he cruised the gay bars of Los Angeles. 
• [with object] informal walk past and assess (a potential sexual partner): he was cruising a pair of sailors.
2 (of a motor vehicle or aircraft) travel smoothly at a moderate or economical speed: we sit in a jet, cruising at some 30,000 ft. 
• achieve an objective with ease, especially in sports: he cruised to an easy victory in Tuesday's primary.
3 (of a young child) walk while holding onto furniture or other structures, prior to learning to walk without support: my daughter cruised at seven months and didn't walk until just after her first birthday 
(as noun cruising) : it can take ages to go from cruising to proper walking 
[with object] : about a week ago she started crawling forwards, cruising furniture, and standing by herself. 
▶noun a voyage on a ship or boat taken for pleasure or as a vacation and usually calling in at several places: a cruise down the Nile 
[as modifier] : a cruise liner. 
PHRASES
cruising for a bruising informal heading or looking for trouble.ORIGIN mid 17th century (as a verb): probably from Dutch kruisen ‘to cross,’ from kruis ‘cross,’ from Latin crux .
