cure 
BrE kjʊə, kjɔː, AmE kjʊr 

A.  transitive verb 
① Medicine 治愈 zhìyù ‹disease›to cure [somebody] of [something]; 治好某人的某种病 
② figurative (resolve) 解决 jiějué ‹problem, shortage, unemployment›; 戒除 jièchú ‹bad habit, jealousy›; 消除 xiāochú ‹misery, poverty›to cure [somebody]/[something] of [something]; 解决某人/某事物的某问题 
③ Culinary (dry) 晒干 shàigān ‹meat, fish, animal skin›(salt) 腌制 yānzhì ‹meat, fish›(smoke) 熏制 xūnzhì ‹meat, fish›(roast) 烤制 kǎozhì ‹tobacco›
B.  noun 
① Countable(remedy) 疗法 liáofǎ (drug) 药物 yàowù a cure for [something]; 某种病的治疗方法 
② Uncountable(recovery) 治愈 zhìyù to effect or work a cure 治愈 zhìyù beyond or past cure 无药可治的 → prevention 
③ Uncountable and countable(solution) 解决方法 jiějué fāngfǎ a cure for [something]; 解决某事的方法 the situation is beyond cure 这种局面已无可救药了 
cure 
kyo͝or

▶verb [with object]
1 relieve (a person or animal) of the symptoms of a disease or condition: he was cured of the disease 
figurative : centuries of science have not cured us of our superstitions. 
• eliminate (a disease, condition, or injury) with medical treatment: this technology could be used to cure diabetes. 
• solve (a problem): stopping foreign investment is no way to cure the fundamental problem.
2 preserve (meat, fish, tobacco, or an animal skin) by various methods such as salting, drying, or smoking: some farmers cured their own bacon 
(as adjective cured) : home-cured ham. 
• harden (rubber, plastic, concrete, etc.) after manufacture by a chemical process such as vulcanization. 
• [no object] undergo curing by a chemical process. 
▶noun
1 a substance or treatment that cures a disease or condition: the search for a cure for the common cold. 
• restoration to health: he was beyond cure. 
• a solution to a problem: the cure is to improve the clutch operation.
2 the process of curing rubber, plastic, or other material.
3 a Christian minister's pastoral charge or area of responsibility for spiritual ministry: a benefice involving the cure of souls. 
• a parish. DERIVATIVES curer 
ˈkyo͝orər 
nounORIGIN Middle English (as a noun): from Old French curer (verb), cure (noun), both from Latin curare ‘take care of,’ from cura ‘care.’ The original noun senses were ‘care, concern, responsibility,’ in particular spiritual care (hence sense
3 of the noun). In late Middle English the senses ‘medical care’ and ‘successful medical treatment’ arose, and hence ‘remedy.’
