curl 
BrE kəːl, AmE kərl 

A.  transitive verb 
① (make curly) 弄卷 nòngjuǎn ‹hair›
② (coil) 卷曲 juǎnqū ‹object, edge›; 弯曲 wānqū ‹body›to curl [something] round or around [something]; 用某物缠绕某物 she curled her body around the pole 她将身体缠绕在柱子上 to curl itself round [something]; «snake» 盘绕某物 she curl herself into a ball 她蜷成一团 to curl one's fingers/toes round [something] 用手指捏住/脚趾夹住某物 to curl one's legs under oneself 盘腿坐下 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (be curly) «hair» 变卷 biànjuǎn it's enough to make your hair curl figurative colloquial 这够让你毛骨悚然的了 
② (coil) «object, edge» 打卷 dǎjuǎn ; «plant» 盘绕 pánrào smoke curled upwards 烟袅袅上升 his finger curled around the trigger 他的手指扣住扳机 his lip curled 他撇了撇嘴 to make [somebody's] toes curl figurative colloquial 使某人厌恶 
C.  noun 
① (of hair) 卷发 juǎnfà her curls are natural 她的头发是自来卷 
② (object) 卷状物 juǎnzhuàngwù (shape or movement) 卷曲 juǎnqū (wave) 浪卷 làngjuǎn a curl of smoke 一缕青烟 ‘of course,’he said, with a curl of his lip “当然，”他撇撇嘴说道 PHRASAL VERB curl up 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (sit or lie in curved position) «person» 蜷曲 quánqū to curl up (in bed) with a good book （在床上）蜷起身子看一本好书 to curl up into a ball 蜷成一团 quánchéng yī tuán to curl up laughing or with laughter 笑得直不起腰来 to curl up with embarrassment 十分窘迫 to curl up and die figurative 羞得无地自容 
② (curve or turn up) «leaf, piece of paper, edge» 卷起 juǎnqǐ his lip curled up in scorn 他轻蔑地撇了撇嘴 
B.  transitive verb 
① to be curled up (sit or lie in curved position) «person, animal» 蜷成一团 quánchéng yī tuán 
② [curl something up], [curl up something] (curve or turn up) 卷起 juǎnqǐ ‹object›; 撅起 juēqǐ ‹lip›to be curled up; 起卷 to curl oneself up into a ball 将身体蜷成一团 
C.  reflexive verb to curl oneself (sit) 蜷曲着坐 (lie) 蜷曲着躺 quánqūzhe tǎng she curled herself up on the sofa 她蜷卧在长沙发上 
curl 
kərl

▶verb
1 form or cause to form into a curved or spiral shape: [no object] : her fingers curled around the microphone 
a slice of ham had begun to curl up at the edges 
[with object] : she used to curl her hair with rags. 
• [no object] (curl up) sit or lie with the knees drawn up: she curled up and went to sleep. 
• move or cause to move in a spiral or curved course: [no object] : a wisp of smoke curling across the sky. 
• (with reference to one's mouth or upper lip) raise or cause to raise slightly on one side as an expression of contempt or disapproval: [no object] : Maria saw his lip curl sardonically. 
• (in weight training) lift (a weight) using only the hands, wrists, and forearms.
2 [no object] play at the game of curling. 
▶noun
1 something having a spiral or inwardly curved form, especially a lock of hair: her blond hair was a mass of tangled curls 
a curl of blue smoke. 
• (with reference to a person's hair) a state or condition of being curled: your hair has a natural curl 
large perm rods give volume and control rather than lots of curl. 
• a curling movement: the sneering curl of his lip. 
• see leaf curl. 
• a weightlifting exercise involving movement of only the hands, wrists, and forearms: a dumbbell curl.
2 Mathematics the vector product of the operator del and a given vector. 
PHRASES
make someone's hair curl informal shock or horrify someone.ORIGIN late Middle English: from obsolete crulle ‘curly,’ from Middle Dutch krul .
