dark 
BrE dɑːk, AmE dɑrk 

A.  adjective 
① (lacking in light) 黑暗的 hēi'àn de ‹night, sky, room›it is getting dark 天就要黑了 the dark side of the moon 月球背面 darkest Africa dated 非洲最偏僻的地区 
② (in colour) 深的 shēn de ‹colour›; 深色的 shēnsè de ‹clothes, paint, liquid›; 黑色的 hēisè de ‹eyes, hair›
③ usually predicative (having dark hair) to be dark «person» 是黑发 shì hēifà 
④ (not pale) 黝黑的 yǒuhēi de ‹skin, complexion›he's very dark 他皮肤很黑 
⑤ (gloomy) 暗淡的 àndàn de ‹future›; 悲观的 bēiguān de ‹prediction, mood›to look on the dark side (of things) 看（事物）阴暗的一面 the darkest days of the war 战争中最惨淡的日子 
⑥ (mysterious) 隐秘的 yǐnmì de ‹thought, hint, purpose, motivation›the darkest recesses of the unconscious mind 潜意识中最隐秘的角落 to keep [something] dark (from [somebody]) （对某人）隐瞒某事物 
⑦ (sinister) 恶毒的 èdú de ‹threat, warning›(evil) 邪恶的 xié'è de ‹power, force›a dark reputation 昭彰恶名 there was a darker side to his nature 他本性中有更为邪恶的一面 
⑧ (angry) 愤怒的 fènnù de to give [somebody] a dark look 愤怒地瞪某人一眼 
⑨ Theatre 关门停演的 guānmén tíng yǎn de ‹theatre›
⑩ Linguistics 暗的 àn de ‹‘l’›
B.  nounUncountable
① (absence of light) 黑暗 hēi'àn in the dark; 在黑暗中 before/after dark; 天黑以前/以后 until dark; 直到天黑 patterns of light and dark 明暗交织的图案 
② to be in the dark (about or as to [something]); （对某事）全然不知 (duì mǒu shì)quánrán bù zhī to keep or leave [somebody] in the dark (about or as to [something]); （关于某事）将某人蒙在鼓里 (guānyú mǒu shì)jiāng mǒu rén méng zài gǔ li a shot/stab in the dark 瞎猜 xiācāi 
dark 
därk

▶adjective
1 with little or no light: it's too dark to see much. 
• hidden from knowledge; mysterious: a dark secret. 
• archaic ignorant; unenlightened: he is dark on certain points of scripture. 
• (of a theater) closed; not in use: on Tuesdays he'd wait tables because the theater was dark.
2 (of a color or object) not reflecting much light; approaching black in shade: dark green. 
• (of someone's skin, hair, or eyes) brown or black in color. 
• (of a person) having dark skin, hair, or eyes: both my father and I are very dark. 
• served or drunk with only a little or no milk or cream.
3 (of a period of time or situation) characterized by tragedy, unhappiness, or unpleasantness: the dark days of the war. 
• gloomily pessimistic: a dark vision of the future. 
• (of an expression) angry; threatening: Matthew flashed a dark look at her. 
• suggestive of or arising from evil characteristics or forces; sinister: so many dark deeds had been committed.
4 Phonetics denoting a velarized form of the sound of the letter l (as in pull). 
▶noun
1 (the dark) the absence of light in a place: Carolyn was sitting in the dark 
he's scared of the dark. 
• nightfall: I'll be home before dark.
2 a dark color or shade, especially in a painting. 
PHRASES
the darkest hour is just before the dawn proverb when things seem to be at their worst, they are about to start improving. in the dark in a state of ignorance about something: we're clearly being kept in the dark about what's happening. keep something dark keep something secret from other people: I asked Ann to keep my identity dark. a shot (or stab) in the dark an act whose outcome cannot be foreseen; a mere guess.DERIVATIVES darkish 
ˈdärkiSH 
adjective. darksome 
ˈdärksəm 
adjective ( literary)ORIGIN Old English deorc, of Germanic origin, probably distantly related to German tarnen ‘conceal.’
