dash 
BrE daʃ, AmE dæʃ 

A.  intransitive verb 
① (go quickly) «person, vehicle» 猛冲 měng chōng the children dashed into/out of the room 孩子们冲进/出房间 the ambulance dashed to the scene of the accident 救护车飞驰到事故现场 I must dash colloquial 我得赶紧走 
② (strike forcibly) «waves» 冲击 chōngjī to dash against [something]; 撞击某物 
B.  transitive verb 
① (fling, force) «person» 猛砸 měng zá ‹glass›; «wave» 猛击 měng jī ‹boat›; «wind» 激起 jīqǐ ‹waves›to dash [something] against [something]; 将某物猛砸在某物上 to dash [something] to the ground 把某物砸到地上 to dash [something] to pieces 把某物砸得粉碎 a passing car dashed mud all over us 一辆汽车飞驰而过，溅了我们一身泥 
② figurative (destroy, frustrate) 使…破灭 shǐ… pòmiè ‹hopes, expectations, prospects›; 使…受挫 shǐ… shòucuò ‹morale, optimism›
③ colloquial dated (damn) dash it (all)! 糟糕！ zāogāo ！ 
C.  noun 
① (rush) 猛冲 měng chōng to make a dash for [something] 冲向某物 to make a dash for it 赶紧跑 
② (punctuation mark) 破折号 pòzhéhào 
③ (in Morse code) 长画 chánghuà dot, dot, dash 点、点、画 
④ (small amount) 少量 shǎoliàng a dash of eye-shadow 一点眼影 bitter with a dash of lemonade BrE 加少许柠檬水的苦啤酒 
⑤ (flair) 才干 cáigàn (vigour, energy) 活力 huólì (elegance) 雅致 yǎzhi (charm) 魅力 mèilì to cut a dash 神气活现 
⑥ Auto = dashboard 
D.  exclamation colloquial dated 糟糕 zāogāo dash (it) ! I've forgotten my keys 糟糕！我忘带钥匙了 PHRASAL VERB dash off 
A.  transitive verb [dash off something, dash something off] 匆匆地写 cōngcōng de xiě ‹note, essay›; 匆匆地画 cōngcōng de huà ‹sketch›
B.  intransitive verb 飞奔 fēibēn he dashed off without saying goodbye 他“再见”都没说就匆匆离开了 
dash 
daSH

▶verb
1 [no object, usually with adverbial of direction] run or travel somewhere in a great hurry: I dashed into the garden 
I must dash, I'm late.
2 [with object] strike or fling (something) somewhere with great force, especially so as to have a destructive effect; hurl: the ship was dashed upon the rocks. 
• [no object, with adverbial of direction] strike forcefully against something: a gust of rain dashed against the bricks. 
• destroy or frustrate (a person's hopes or expectations): the budget dashed hopes of an increase in funding. 
• cause (someone) to lose confidence; dispirit: I won't tell Stuart—I think he'd be dashed. 
▶exclam. British informal, dated used to express mild annoyance: “Dash it all, I am in charge.” 
▶noun
1 [in singular] an act of running somewhere suddenly and hastily: she made a dash for the door. 
• a journey or period of time characterized by urgency or eager haste: a 20-mile dash to the airport. 
• North American a short fast race run in one heat; a sprint: the 100-yard dash.
2 a small quantity of a substance, especially a liquid, added to something else: whiskey with a dash of soda. 
• a small amount of a particular quality adding piquancy or distinctiveness to something else: a casual atmosphere with a dash of sophistication.
3 a horizontal stroke in writing or printing to mark a pause or break in sense, or to represent omitted letters or words. 
• the longer signal of the two used in Morse code. Compare with dot1. 
• Music a short vertical mark placed above or beneath a note to indicate that it is to be performed in a very staccato manner.
4 impetuous or flamboyant vigor and confidence; panache: he has youthful energy, dash, and charisma.
5 short for dashboard. PHRASAL VERBS dash something off write something hurriedly and without much premeditation.ORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘strike forcibly against’): probably symbolic of forceful movement and related to Swedish daska and Danish daske .
