dawn 
BrE dɔːn, AmE dɔn, dɑn 
A. noun 
① literal (time of day) 黎明 límíng from dawn to or till dusk 从早到晚 dawn broke 天亮了 do [something] until dawn 彻夜做某事 at dawn 黎明时 at the crack of dawn 一大早 
② figurative (beginning of sth. new) 开端 kāiduān the dawn of civilization/a new era 文明/新纪元的开端 since the dawn of time 自开辟鸿蒙以来 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (become light) «day» 破晓 pòxiǎo the day dawned sunny and warm 天亮了，阳光明媚，温暖宜人 the day will dawn when … figurative …的那一天会来的 
② figurative (begin to develop) 开始 kāishǐ a new era has dawned in China 中国进入了一个新纪元 hope dawned on the horizon 希望出现了 
③ to dawn on or upon [somebody] «truth» 被某人认识到 «idea» 被某人想到 bèi mǒu rén xiǎngdào it dawned on me/him that … 我/他突然明白… inspiration/the answer dawned on him 他突然来了灵感/想出了答案 
dawn 
▶noun
1 we got up at dawn: daybreak, sunrise, first light, daylight; first thing in the morning, sun-up. ANTONYMS dusk.
2 the dawn of civilization: beginning, start, birth, inception, origination, genesis, emergence, advent, appearance, arrival, dawning, rise, origin, onset; unfolding, development, infancy; informal kickoff. ANTONYMS end.
▶verb
1 Thursday dawned crisp and sunny: begin, break, arrive, emerge. ANTONYMS end.
2 a bright new future has dawned: begin, start, commence, be born, appear, arrive, emerge; arise, rise, break, unfold, develop. ANTONYMS end.
3 the reality dawned on him: occur to, come to, strike, hit, enter someone's mind, register with, enter someone's consciousness, cross someone's mind, suggest itself.REFLECTIONS Michael Dirdadawn Unless you're Homer, never say rosy-fingered Dawn. English is replete with classical tags and hackneyed phrases such as this one, but their use in writing tends to plunge any sentence into bathos. Rosy-toed Dawn might work, if you're describing a woman of this name with a dubious penchant for pink nail polish. But, in general, be wary of the wine-dark sea or the melancholy Dane or the Bard of Avon or any other phrase that comes too readily to mind. Or trippingly to the tongue, as I originally typed, and then deleted. First thoughts are all too often second-rate clichés.Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
