day 
BrE deɪ, AmE deɪ 
noun 
① (24-hour period) 一天 yī tiān a day visit/excursion 为期一天的拜访/一日游 what day is it today? 今天星期几？ day in, day out 日复一日 day by day 一天天 day after day 一天又一天 the day before yesterday or last 前天 the day after tomorrow or next 后天 the day before, the previous day 前一天 the day after, the following day 次日 one day (past) 某一天 (future) 有一天 one of these days 日内 to take one day at a time 按部就班地处理问题 to this day 直到现在 from that day on or onwards 从那天起 to change from day to day or from one day to the next 一天一个样 from day one 从第一天 (on) the day (when/that) … 在…的那天 it's 15 years to the day since we first met 从我们第一次见面到现在已整整15年 I can't tell you to a day 我说不出准确日子 that'll be the day! 怎么可能！ 35? she's 40 if she's a day! 35岁？她起码40岁了！ why did it have to rain today of all days! 为什么偏偏今天要下雨呢！ how long will it take? — days 这要多久？──很长时间 in (a matter of) days 在几天内 many a long day 很久 
② (as opposed to night) 白天 báitiān all day 整天 to be or take all day (doing or to do or about [something]); 花一整天时间（做某事） it's been a long day 今天忙了一整天 as soon as day breaks 等天一亮 it is already day 天已经亮了 the days are closing in or drawing in or getting shorter 白昼在变短 the days are drawing out or getting longer 白昼在变长 all day and every day 天天从早到晚 to make a day of it 痛快地玩一整天 to make [somebody's] day 使某人很开心 as clear as day 一清二楚 to see the light of day 被公开 to pass the time of day (with [somebody]) （与某人）寒暄 to give [somebody] the time of day 和某人打招呼 it's not every day you pass your driving test! 通过驾驶考试没那么容易！ 
③ (until evening) 日常活动日 rìcháng huódòng rì a working/school day 工作/上学日 a day student/worker 走读生/零工 she works a three-day week 她一周工作3天 to be paid by the day 按日取酬 £10 a or per day 每天10英镑 to work days, to be on days 上日班 a day off 休息日 to ask for a day off 请一天假 to be all in a day's work (for [somebody]) 是（某人）日常工作的一部分 to call it a day 结束 to carry or win the day 获胜 to lose the day 失败 
④ (specific day) [特定的] 日子 rìzi International No-Smoking Day 国际禁烟日 my shopping day 我的购物日 it's decision day for the government 今天政府必须作出决策 I forgot my lines on the day 我在正式演出那天忘了词儿 to her dying day 直到她去世的那天 the day of judgement 世界末日 it's not [somebody's] day colloquial 某人今天真倒霉 one of those days 特别不顺的日子 
⑤ (particular period) 时期 shíqī the days of rationing 配给制时期 in the days to come 在来日 the rest of his days 他的余生 these days 如今 in days gone by 在过去的岁月里 in days of old 在古代 in the old days 在过去 in the days of [somebody], in [somebody's] day 在某人的时代 [somebody's] fighting/dancing days 某人的拳击/舞蹈生涯 in those days 那时 those were the days! 那时候多美好啊！ to have seen better days 风光不再 (to live) to see the day (when …) （活到）能看到（…的）那一天 
⑥ (time of success) 鼎盛时期 dǐngshèng shíqī to have had one's/its day 已过全盛时期 she had her day in the 1960s 她在20世纪60年代曾经风光过 the days of [something]/[somebody] are over or have passed 某物/某人的时代已经过去了 [somebody's] day will come 某人将会时来运转 
day 
▶noun
1 I stayed for a day : a twenty-four-hour period, twenty-four hours.
2 enjoy the beach during the day: daytime, daylight; waking hours. ANTONYMS night.
3 the leading architect of the day: period, time, age, era, generation.
4 in his day he had great influence: heyday, prime, time; peak, height, zenith, ascendancy; youth, springtime, salad days. ANTONYMS decline.
PHRASES
day after day day after day, we learn of new allegations: repeatedly, again and again, over and over (again), time and (time) again, frequently, often, time after time; night and day, all the time; persistently, recurrently, constantly, continuously, continually, relentlessly, regularly, habitually, unfailingly, always, oftentimes; informal 24-7; literary oft, ofttimes. day by day
1 day by day they were forced to retreat: gradually, slowly, progressively; bit by bit, inch by inch, little by little.
2 they follow the news day by day: daily, every day, day after day; diurnally. day in, day out doing the same thing day in day out can get a bit tedious: repeatedly, again and again, over and over (again), time and (time) again, frequently, often, time after time; night and day, all the time; persistently, recurrently, constantly, continuously, continually, relentlessly, regularly, habitually, unfailingly, always, oftentimes; informal 24-7; literary oft, ofttimes. 
WORD LINKS
day diurnal relating to the dayWord Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.
