dead 
BrE dɛd, AmE dɛd 
A. adjective 
① (no longer living) 死的 sǐ de ‹human, animal, plant›; 凋谢的 diāoxiè de ‹flower›; 枯萎的 kūwěi de ‹leaf, grass›to sweep up the dead leaves 把枯叶扫在一起 dead skin 死皮 a dead body 尸体 to drop (down) dead 猝死 drop dead! slang 去死吧！ to leave [somebody] for dead 撇下某人让其等死 to shoot [somebody] dead 开枪打死某人 dead and buried literal 已死的 figurative 结束的 dead on arrival 到医院时已经死亡的 more dead than alive 奄奄一息的 wanted, dead or alive 通缉嫌犯，死活不论 they've been working all day; they must be absolutely dead colloquial 他们忙了一整天，肯定累死了 over my dead body! colloquial 绝对不行！ (as) dead as a doornail or as mutton colloquial 死僵了的 to be dead from the neck up colloquial 非常笨 to be dead to the world colloquial 酣睡 [somebody] wouldn't be seen dead doing [something]/with [somebody] colloquial 某人死也不愿意做某事/和某人在一起 to step into dead men's shoes 补缺 dead men tell no tales proverb 死人不会告密 
② (inanimate) 无生命的 wúshēngmìng de ‹matter, rock, statue, planet›; (barren) 寸草不生的 cùn cǎo bù shēng de ‹soil, land, planet›
③ (without feeling) 麻木的 mámù de ‹part of body, gums, nerves›to go dead; «feet, legs» 发麻 
④ (impervious) to be dead to [something]; 对某事物无动于衷 duì mǒu shìwù wú dòng yú zhōng he is dead to shame 他恬不知耻 tā tián bù zhī chǐ 
⑤ (expressionless) 冷漠的 lěngmò de ‹voice, eye›
⑥ (no longer in use or valid) 过时的 guòshí de ‹issue, subject›; 失效的 shīxiào de ‹law›; 不复存在的 bù fù cúnzài de ‹organization, custom, tradition›a dead language 死语言 the peace plan is not yet dead 和平计划尚未成为泡影 the campaign is as dead as a dodo colloquial 这场运动已完全成了过去时了 
⑦ (no longer functioning) 没电的 méi diàn de ‹battery›; 失灵的 shīlíng de ‹engine›; 熄灭的 xīmiè de ‹fire›dead coals 煤烬 a dead match/cigarette 划过的火柴/抽过的烟 the hard disk is dead 硬盘坏了 are all these glasses dead? colloquial 这些杯子还有人用吗？ to go dead; «phone, line» 没声音 
⑧ (dull, not lively) 乏味的 fáwèi de ‹party, acting›; 冷清的 lěngqing de ‹town, season›to go dead; 沉寂 
⑨ (absolute, complete) 绝对的 juéduì de ‹certainty, level›dead calm 死寂 in a dead sleep 在沉睡 in dead earnest 极其认真地 to be a dead shot colloquial 是神射手 to come to a dead stop 完全停止 the dead centre of the target 靶心 
⑩ Sport 界外的 jièwài de the manager had to wait until the ball was dead before making the substitution 球队教练只好等到出现死球时才换人 
B.  adverb 绝对地 juéduì de to be dead against [something]; 坚决反对某事 to be dead on time 十分准时 to be dead drunk 烂醉 I was dead tired 我累死了 dead ahead 在正前方 dead straight 笔直的 to stop dead 死死地停住 ‘dead slow’ “慢速行驶” I'm dead scared colloquial 吓死我了 you're dead right! colloquial 你完全正确！ 
C.  noun 
① plus plural verb (people) the dead 死者 sǐzhě a monument to the dead 死难者纪念碑 sǐnànzhě jìniànbēi 
② (death) to rise from the dead 死而复生 sǐ ér fù shēng to be raised from the dead 被救活 bèi jiùhuó 
③ figurative (depths) at dead of night, in the dead of night; 夜深人静时 yè shēn rén jìng shí in the dead of winter; 在隆冬 zài lóngdōng 
dead 
▶adjective
1 my parents are dead: passed on/away, expired, departed, gone, no more; late, lost, lamented; perished, fallen, slain, slaughtered, killed, murdered; lifeless, extinct; informal (as) dead as a doornail, six feet under, pushing up daisies; formal deceased; euphemistic with God, asleep. ANTONYMS alive, living.
2 patches of dead ground: barren, lifeless, bare, desolate, sterile. ANTONYMS fertile, lush.
3 a dead language: obsolete, extinct, defunct, disused, abandoned, discarded, superseded, vanished, forgotten; archaic, antiquated, ancient; literary of yore. ANTONYMS modern, current.
4 the phone was dead: not working, out of order, inoperative, inactive, in disrepair, broken, malfunctioning, defective; informal kaput, conked out, on the blink, on the fritz, bust, busted. ANTONYMS in working order.
5 a dead leg: numb, numbed, deadened, desensitized, unfeeling; paralyzed, crippled, incapacitated, immobilized, frozen.
6 she has dead eyes: emotionless, unemotional, unfeeling, impassive, unresponsive, indifferent, dispassionate, inexpressive, wooden, stony, cold; deadpan, flat; blank, vacant. ANTONYMS passionate.
7 his affection for her was dead: extinguished, quashed, stifled; finished, over, gone, no more; a thing of the past, ancient history.
8 a dead town: uneventful, uninteresting, unexciting, uninspiring, dull, boring, flat, quiet, sleepy, slow, lackluster, lifeless; informal one-horse, dullsville. ANTONYMS lively.
9 dead silence: complete, absolute, total, utter, out-and-out, thorough, unmitigated. ANTONYMS partial.
10 a dead shot: unerring, unfailing, impeccable, sure, true, accurate, precise; deadly, lethal, bang on. ANTONYMS poor.
▶adverb
1 he was dead serious: completely, absolutely, totally, utterly, deadly, perfectly, entirely, quite, thoroughly; definitely, certainly, positively, categorically, unquestionably, undoubtedly, surely; in every way, one hundred percent.
2 flares were seen dead ahead: directly, exactly, precisely, immediately, right, straight, due, squarely; informal smack dab.
3 informal it's dead easy. See very. QUOTE Remember, they only name things after you when you’re dead or really old.Barbara Bush, US first lady
