deck 
BrE dɛk, AmE dɛk 

A.  noun 
① Nautical 甲板 jiǎbǎn to be on deck; 在甲板上 to go (up/out) on deck; 到甲板上去 on/below deck; 在甲板上面/下面 upper/car deck 上层/车辆甲板 
② (on bus, plane) 层面 céngmiàn upper/lower deck 上层/下层 the flight deck 飞机驾驶舱 
③ Audio equipment (for records) 转盘支托面 zhuànpán zhītuōmiàn (for cassettes) 走带机构 zǒudài jīgòu 
④ AmE (of cards) a deck of cards; 一副纸牌 yī fù zhǐpái 
B.  transitive verb 
① (decorate) 装饰 zhuāngshì to deck [something] with [something]; 用某物装饰 ‹room, building, Christmas tree›
② (dress up) 盛装打扮 shèngzhuāng dǎban to deck [somebody] with [something]; 用…打扮某人 ‹jewellery, clothes›PHRASAL VERB deck out transitive verb 
① [deck something out], [deck out sth] (decorate) 装饰 zhuāngshì 
② [deck somebody out] (dress) 打扮 dǎban to deck oneself out in or with [something]; 用某物打扮自己 
deck 
dek

▶noun
1 a structure of planks or plates, approximately horizontal, extending across a ship or boat at any of various levels, especially one of those at the highest level and open to the weather: he stood on the deck of his flagship. 
• a floor or platform resembling or compared to a ship's deck, especially the floor of a pier or a platform for sunbathing. 
• a platformlike structure, typically made of lumber and unroofed, attached to a house or other building: they cooked hamburgers on the deck adjoining the living room. 
• a level of a large, open building, especially a sports stadium: Jeter hit an enormous home run into the upper deck. 
• (the deck) informal the ground or floor: there was a big thud when I hit the deck. 
• the flat part of a skateboard or snowboard.
2 a component or unit in sound-reproduction equipment that incorporates a playing or recording mechanism for discs or tapes: the car has cruise control and a tape deck. 
• (decks) another term for turntables: every serious DJ needs a set of decks.
3 chiefly North American a pack of cards: shuffle the deck. 
• North American informal a packet of narcotics. 
▶verb [with object]
1 (usually be decked) decorate or adorn brightly or festively: Ingrid was decked out in her Sunday best.
2 informal knock (someone) to the ground with a punch. 
PHRASES
clear the decks see clear. not playing with a full deck North American informal mentally deficient. on deck on or onto a ship's main deck: she stood on deck for hours. 
• North American informal ready for action or work. 
• Baseball next to hit in the batting order.ORIGIN late Middle English: from Middle Dutch dec ‘covering, roof, cloak,’ dekken ‘to cover.’ Originally denoting canvas used to make a covering (especially on a ship), the term came to mean the covering itself, later denoting a solid surface serving as roof and floor.
