deep 
BrE diːp, AmE dip 

A.  adjective 
① (vertically) 深的 shēn de a hole
10 metres deep, a 10-metre-deep hole 10米深的洞 ankle-/waist-deep 齐踝/腰深的 a deep-pile carpet 厚绒地毯 to be in deep water figurative 处于困境 
② (horizontally) 纵深的 zòngshēn de the cupboard isn't deep enough 碗橱进深不够 that plot of land is 50 metres deep 那块地纵深有50米 a 30-centimetre-deep shelf 一个进深30厘米的架子 the people stood six deep 人们站成6排 
③ (low in pitch) 低沉的 dīchén de ‹note, sound, tone, voice›
④ (intense in tone) [色调] 深的 shēn de deep darkness 漆黑 a deep tan 晒得黝黑的肤色 
⑤ (strongly felt, profound) 深切的 shēnqiè de ‹emotion, impression›; 浓厚的 nónghòu de ‹interest›; 由衷的 yóuzhōng de ‹admiration›; 极度的 jídù de ‹outrage, trouble›deep love 挚爱 deep faith 坚定的信仰 deep depression 深深的沮丧 you have my deepest sympathy 我对你深表同情 it is with deepest regret that we announce the death of … 我们非常遗憾地宣告…去世了 in deep disgrace 极不光彩地 
⑥ (impenetrable) 茂密的 màomì de ‹jungle, forest, undergrowth›they live in deepest Wales humorous 他们生活在威尔士极偏远的地区 
⑦ (impossible to understand) 捉摸不透的 zhuōmō bù tòu de ‹person, secret, mystery›
⑧ (intellectually profound) 深奥的 shēn'ào de ‹book›; 深刻的 shēnkè de ‹thinker, thought, insight›; 深入的 shēnrù de ‹discussion›; 渊博的 yuānbó de ‹knowledge›; 造诣精深的 zàoyì jīngshēn de ‹writer, person›at a deeper level 在更深的层面上 you're a deep one! humorous 你是真人不露相啊！ 
⑨ (from which it is hard to wake) 深度的 shēndù de ‹sleep, coma, trance›
⑩ predicative (involved, absorbed) 深深陷入的 shēnshēn xiànrù de she was deep in thought 她陷入深思 he's deep in a book 他在专心看书 we are deep in debt 我们债台高筑 
⑪ Sport 靠近对方端线的 kàojìn duìfāng duānxiàn de ‹shot, pass, serve›
⑫ (slow and steady) [呼吸] 深的 shēn de she gave a deep sigh of relief 她深深松了一口气 
B.  adverb 
① (a long way down) 深深地 shēnshēn de ‹dig, bury, cut›deep beneath the earth's surface 地表下深处 she plunged the knife deep into his body 她把刀深深地捅进了他的身体 
② (a long way in) 深入地 shēnrù de ‹venture, penetrate›to go deep into enemy territory 深入敌境 our house is deep in the (heart of the) countryside 我们的房子远在农村（腹地） to read/work/talk/dance deep into the night 看书/工作/谈话/跳舞到深夜 to gaze or look deep into [somebody's] eyes 深深地凝视某人 in deep colloquial 深陷其中 
③ figurative (emotionally) 强烈地 qiángliè de to go deep «loyalty, faith, instinct, emotion» 变得强烈 her problems go deeper than just temporary depression 她的问题不止是一时的沮丧 deep in my heart 在我内心深处 deep down (inside) 在内心深处 their prejudices run deep 他们的偏见根深蒂固 
④ Sport 靠近对方端线 kàojìn duìfāng duānxiàn ‹kick, serve, hit›
C.  noun literary the deep 大海 dàhǎi 
deep 
dēp

▶adjective
1 extending far down from the top or surface: a deep gorge 
the lake was deep and cold. 
• extending or situated far in or down from the outer edge or surface: a deep alcove 
deep in the woods. 
• [predicative] (after a measurement and in questions) extending a specified distance from the top, surface, or outer edge: the well was 200 feet deep. 
• [in combination] as far up or down as a specified point: standing waist-deep in the river. 
• [predicative] in a specified number of ranks one behind another: [in combination] : they were standing three-deep at the bar. 
• taking in or giving out a lot of air: she took a deep breath. 
• Baseball far back in the outfield: his first pitch was hit into deep left field.
2 very intense or extreme: she was in deep trouble 
a deep sleep 
a deep economic recession. 
• (of an emotion or feeling) intensely felt: deep disappointment. 
• profound or penetrating in awareness or understanding: a deep analysis. 
• difficult to understand: this is all getting too deep for me. 
• [predicative] (deep in) fully absorbed or involved in (a state or activity): they were deep in their own thoughts. 
• (of a person) unpredictable and secretive: that Thomas is a deep one.
3 (of sound) low in pitch and full in tone; not shrill: a deep, resonant voice.
4 (of color) dark and intense: a deep pink. 
▶noun (the deep) literary the sea: denizens of the deep. 
• (usually deeps) a deep part of the sea: the dark and menacing deeps 
figurative : the deeps of her imagination. 
▶adverb far down or in; deeply: traveling deep into the countryside. 
• (in sports) distant from the start of a play or the forward line of one's team: the defense played deep. 
PHRASES
the deep end the end of a swimming pool where the water is deepest. go off (or go in off) the deep end informal give way immediately to an emotional outburst, especially of anger. 
• chiefly US go mad; behave extremely strangely: they looked at me as if I had gone off the deep end. go (or run) deep (of emotions, beliefs, etc.) be strongly and wholeheartedly felt or held: his passion runs deep. in deep informal inextricably involved in or committed to a situation: he knew that he was in deep when his things began to proliferate in her apartment. in deep water (or waters) informal in trouble or difficulty: he landed in deep water when he began the affair.jump (or be thrown) in at the deep end informal face a difficult problem or undertaking with little experience of it.DERIVATIVES deepness 
ˈdēpnəs 
nounORIGIN Old English dēop (adjective), dīope, dēope (adverb), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch diep and German tief, also to dip .
