default 
BrE dɪˈfɔːlt, AmE dəˈfɔlt 

A.  noun 
① (failure to pay) 未履行债务 wèi lǚxíng zhàiwù to be in default of payment 拖欠付款 the company is in default 这个公司未履行债务 
② Computing 默认 mòrèn the default settings 系统预设值 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (fail to pay) 拖欠 tuōqiàn to default on payments/a loan/a fine 拖欠付款/借款/罚款 to default on one's obligations/promise 未履行职责/违背诺言 
② Computing 默认 mòrèn to default to [something] 预设为… 
③ (fail to appear in court) 未到庭 wèi dàotíng 
C.  by default adverb phrase (due to lack of opposition) 因对手缺席 yīn duìshǒu quēxí (due to lack of conscious choice) 因没有主动选择 yīn méiyǒu zhǔdòng xuǎnzé to win by default 因对手不到场而获胜 she was held responsible by default 她因为没有采取措施而负有责任 he became an actor by default 他当上演员并非刻意所为 
D.  in default of preposition phrase 由于缺乏 yóuyú quēfá 
default 
dəˈfôlt

▶noun
1 failure to fulfill an obligation, especially to repay a loan or appear in a court of law: it will have to restructure its debts to avoid default 
the deteriorating economy pushed defaults to almost $20 billion.
2 a preselected option adopted by a computer program or other mechanism when no alternative is specified by the user or programmer: the default is fifty lines 
[as modifier] : default settings. 
• [usually as modifier] something that is usual or standard: all my life, envy has been my default emotion 
SSRIs have become the default for adults with depression. 
▶verb [no object]
1 fail to fulfill an obligation, especially to repay a loan or to appear in a court of law: some had defaulted on student loans. 
• [with object] declare (a party) in default and give judgment against that party: the possibility that cases would be defaulted and defendants released.
2 (default to) (of a computer program or other mechanism) revert automatically to (a preselected option): when you start a fresh letter, the system will default to its own style. 
PHRASES
by default because of a lack of opposition: they won the last election by default. 
• through lack of positive action rather than conscious choice: legislation dies by default if the governor fails to act on it. in default guilty of failing to repay a loan or appear in a court of law: the company is already in default on its loans. in default of in the absence of: in default of agreement, the rent was to be determined by a surveyor.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French defaut, from defaillir ‘to fail,’ based on Latin fallere ‘disappoint, deceive.’
