defeat 
BrE dɪˈfiːt, AmE dəˈfit 
A. noun 
① Uncountable and countableMilitary, Politics, Sport (loss) 失败 shībài (victory (over)) 击败 jībài to meet with or suffer a defeat 遭到失败 to concede or admit defeat 认输 to stare defeat in the face 眼看就要失败 the defeat of fascism 战胜法西斯主义 
② Uncountable(of proposal, bill) 否决 fǒujué 
③ Uncountable(of hope, plan) 落空 luòkōng to give up in defeat 无功而返 
B.  transitive verb 
① Military, Politics, Sport (vanquish) 击败 jībài Labour defeated the Conservatives by nearly 2,000 votes 工党以高出近2,000张选票的优势击败了保守党 
② Politics (achieve rejection of) 否决 fǒujué ‹proposal, bill, motion, amendment›
③ (overcome in argument) 驳倒 bódǎo ‹speaker, argument›
④ (thwart) 使…落空 shǐ… luòkōng ‹hope, plan, ambition›to be defeated in one's attempts/efforts (to do [something]); （做某事的）企图/努力受挫 don't be defeated! 别气馁！ to defeat one's own purpose or ends 违背初衷 
⑤ (baffle) «problem, task, concept» 难倒 nándǎo ‹person›the instruction manual completely defeated me 说明书完全把我搞晕了 
defeat 
▶verb
1 the army that defeated the rebels: beat, conquer, win against, triumph over, get the better of, vanquish; rout, trounce, overcome, overpower, crush, subdue; informal lick, thrash, whip, wipe the floor with, make mincemeat of, clobber, slaughter, demolish, cream, skunk, nose out.
2 these complex plans defeat their purpose: thwart, frustrate, foil, ruin, scotch, debar, derail; obstruct, impede, hinder, hamper; informal put the kibosh on, stymie, scuttle.
3 the motion was defeated: reject, overthrow, throw out, dismiss, outvote, turn down; informal give the thumbs down.
4 how to make it work defeats me: baffle, perplex, bewilder, mystify, bemuse, confuse, confound, throw; informal beat, flummox, faze, stump.
▶noun
1 a crippling defeat: loss, conquest, vanquishment; rout, trouncing; downfall; informal thrashing, hiding, drubbing, licking, pasting, massacre, slaughter, beatdown. ANTONYMS victory.
2 the defeat of his plans: failure, downfall, collapse, ruin; rejection, frustration, abortion, miscarriage; undoing, reverse. ANTONYMS success.
