defence 
BrE dɪˈfɛns, AmE dəˈfɛns, ˈdiˌfɛns
BrE noun 
① Uncountable(act of protecting) 保卫 bǎowèi to come or go to [somebody's] defence; 保护某人 to put up a brave defence 勇敢自卫 to die in defence of one's country 为保卫祖国而牺牲 Ministry/Minister of Defence BrE 国防部/国防大臣 defence expenditure/budget 国防开支/预算 
② Countable(means of protection) 防御物 fángyùwù a line of defence 防线 a defence against invaders 防御侵略者的屏障 sea defences 海防工事 
③ Uncountable and countable(support) 辩解 biànjiě to come or go to [somebody's] defence; 为某人辩解 in defence of [somebody]/[something]; 为某人/某事辩解 I want to say in my defence that … 我想为自己辩解的是… he leapt to her defence 他挺身为她辩解 to put up a defence 进行辩解 
④ Uncountable and countableLaw (case) 辩护 biànhù to conduct [somebody's]/one's own defence 为某人/自己进行辩护 a witness for the defence 辩方证人 a defence lawyer/witness 辩方律师/证人 
⑤ UncountableSport (defending) 防守 fángshǒu his main role is (in) defence 他的主要任务是防守 
⑥ CountableSport (team members) 防守队员 fángshǒu duìyuán to play in or for the defence 打防守 
⑦ UncountableSport (protection of title) 卫冕 wèimiǎn Barcelona's defence of the European Cup 巴塞罗那队对欧洲冠军杯的成功卫冕 
defense 
dəˈfens ˈdēˌfens 
(British defence) 
▶noun
1 the action of defending from or resisting attack: they relied on missiles for the country's defense 
she came to the defense of the eccentric professor 
he spoke in defense of a disciplined approach. 
• an instance of defending a title or seat in a contest or election: his first title defense against Jones. 
• military measures or resources for protecting a country: the minister of defense 
[as modifier] : defense policy. 
• a means of protecting something from attack: education is the best defense against tyranny. 
• (defenses) fortifications or barriers against attack: coastal defenses. 
• (in sports) the action or role of defending one's goal against the opposition: we played solid defense. 
• (the defense) the players in a team who defend the goal.
2 the case presented by or on behalf of the party being accused or sued in a lawsuit.
3 (usually the defense) [treated as singular or plural] one or more defendants and the counsel in a trial: the defense requested more time to prepare their case. 
PHRASES
defense in depth the practice of arranging defensive lines or fortifications so that they can defend each other, especially in case of an enemy incursion.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French defens, from late Latin defensum (neuter), defensa (feminine), past participles of defendere ‘defend.’
