deliver 
BrE dɪˈlɪvə, AmE dəˈlɪvər 

A.  transitive verb 
① (take to address, recipient) 递送 dìsòng ‹goods, package, message›to deliver [something] to [somebody]; 把某物送到某人处 to deliver a letter to an address; 把信投递到某个地址 to have [something] delivered 让人送某物 
② (hand over) 移交 yíjiāo ‹goods, property, money›to deliver [somebody]/[something] over or up to [somebody]; 把某人/某物交给某人 to deliver [something] into [somebody's] care; 把某物交由某人保管 
③ (utter) 发表 fābiǎo ‹speech, address›; 作出 zuòchū ‹verdict, decision, reprimand›to deliver a lecture 作讲座 to deliver a sermon 布道 to deliver (one's) lines (in drama, lecture) 念台词 to deliver an ultimatum 发出最后通牒 to deliver a sharp rebuke to [somebody] 严厉训斥某人 
④ (throw) 投掷 tóuzhì ‹ball›; 发射 fāshè ‹missile, bullet›; 给予 jǐyǔ ‹blow, punch›to deliver a nasty/fatal kick 踢出危险的/致命的一脚 
⑤ (provide, achieve) 履行 lǚxíng ‹promise›; 实现 shíxiàn ‹reform, improvement›to deliver improved production levels 提高生产水平 the new model delivers speed and fuel economy 这种新型号能提高速度并节约燃料 to deliver the goods figurative colloquial (fulfil a promise) 兑现承诺 duìxiàn chéngnuò (fulfil expectations) 不负所望 bù fù suǒ wàng 
⑥ Medicine, Veterinary medicine 接生 jiēshēng ‹baby, young animal›to be delivered by Caesarean section 通过剖宫产手术出生 to be delivered of a baby formal 分娩 
B.  intransitive verb 
① Busn 送货 sònghuò 
② (hand over mail) 投递 tóudì 
③ (fulfil a promise) 兑现承诺 duìxiàn chéngnuò (fulfil expectations) 不负所望 bù fù suǒ wàng they have failed to deliver on the issue of quality control 他们在质量控制问题上令人失望 the film promises much, but it doesn't deliver 这部电影让人期望很高，但结果令人失望 
deliver 
dəˈlivər

▶verb [with object]
1 bring and hand over (a letter, parcel, or ordered goods) to the proper recipient or address: the products should be delivered on time 
[no object] : we'll deliver direct to your door. 
• formally hand over (someone): they would have delivered him to the Germans for vengeance. 
• 
• launch or aim (a blow, a ball, or an attack): the pitcher winds up to deliver the ball. 
• provide (something promised or expected): he had been able to deliver votes in huge numbers 
she's waiting for him to deliver on his promise. 
• (deliver someone/something from) save, rescue, or set free from: deliver us from misery. 
• (deliver someone/something up) surrender someone or something: to deliver up to justice a member of his own family. 
• Law acknowledge that one intends to be bound by (a deed), either explicitly by declaration or implicitly by formal handover.
2 state in a formal manner: the President will deliver a speech 
he delivered himself of a sermon. 
• (of a judge or court) give (a judgment or verdict): the judge delivered his verdict.
3 assist in the birth of: the village midwife delivered the baby. 
• give birth to: the number of women delivering their babies in hospitals increased. 
• archaic or formal assist (a woman) in giving birth: she was delivered of her second child. 
PHRASES
deliver the goods informal provide what is promised or expected.DERIVATIVES deliveree 
dəˌlivərˈē 
noun. deliverer 
dəˈliv(ə)rər 
nounORIGIN Middle English: from Old French delivrer, based on Latin de- ‘away’ + liberare ‘set free.’
