deposit 
BrE dɪˈpɒzɪt, AmE dəˈpɑzət 

A.  transitive verb 
① (put down) 放下 fàngxia ‹object›
② (lay) «insect, fish» 下 xià ‹eggs›
③ (entrust) 存放 cúnfàng to deposit [something] with [somebody] 把某物委托某人保管 to deposit money at a bank 把钱存入银行 
④ Geology «river, glacier, wind» 使…沉积 shǐ… chénjī ‹silt, rock, dust›
B.  noun 
① (into bank account) 存款 cúnkuǎn to make a deposit 存一笔钱 on deposit 储存着 
② (part payment) 定金 dìngjīn to put down a deposit on a house 支付购房定金 
③ (against damage) 押金 yājīn ; (on bottle) 押瓶费 yāpíngfèi 
④ BrE Politics 竞选保证金 jìngxuǎn bǎozhèngjīn to lose one's deposit 失掉竞选保证金 
⑤ Geology 沉积层 chénjīcéng oil/coal deposits 油藏/煤藏 
⑥ Chemistry 沉淀 chéndiàn 
deposit 
dəˈpäzət

▶noun
1 a sum of money placed or kept in a bank account, usually to gain interest. 
• an act of placing money in a bank account: I'd like to make a deposit.
2 a sum payable as a first installment on the purchase of something or as a pledge for a contract, the balance being payable later: we've saved enough for a deposit on a house. 
• a returnable sum payable on the rental of something, to cover any possible loss or damage.
3 a layer or body of accumulated matter: the deposits of salt on the chrome. 
• a natural layer of sand, rock, coal, or other material. 
▶verb (deposits, depositing, deposited)
1 [with object] put or set down (something or someone) in a specific place, typically unceremoniously: he deposited a pile of schoolbooks on the kitchen table. 
• (usually be deposited) (of water, the wind, or other natural agency) lay down (matter) gradually as a layer or covering: beds where salt is deposited by the tide. 
• lay (an egg): the female deposits a line of eggs.
2 [with object] store or entrust with someone for safekeeping. 
• pay (a sum of money) into a bank account: the money is deposited with a bank. 
• pay (a sum) as a first installment or as a pledge for a contract: I had to deposit 10% of the price of the house. ORIGIN late 16th century (especially in the phrases in deposit or on deposit): from Latin depositum (noun), medieval Latin depositare (verb), both from Latin deposit- ‘laid aside,’ from the verb deponere .
