devil 
BrE ˈdɛv(ə)l, AmE ˈdɛvəl 
noun 
① (Satan) the devil or Devil 撒旦 Sādàn speak or talk of the devil 说到谁，谁就到 shuō dào shuí ， shuí jiù dào go to the devil! dated colloquial 见鬼去吧！ jiànguǐ qù ba ！ to be caught between the devil and the deep (blue) sea 进退两难 jìn tuì liǎng nán there'll be the devil to pay (for this) 那就有大麻烦了 nà jiù yǒu dàmáfan le to have the luck of the devil 非常走运 fēicháng zǒuyùn the devil's in the detail 细微之处最易出问题 the devil finds work for idle hands proverb 闲则生非 xián zé shēng fēi the devil looks after his own proverb 恶人自有魔鬼保佑 
② (evil spirit) 魔鬼 móguǐ better the devil you know (than the one you don't) 熟悉的魔鬼总比陌生的好 ［指宁可选择讨厌但熟悉的人或事物］
③ (used for emphasis) 究竟 jiūjìng what/who/where etc. the devil …? 究竟是什么/谁/在哪里等…？ to work/run like the devil; 拼命地工作/跑 what the devil! 完了！ come on, one drink won't hurt you! — oh, what the devil! 来吧，喝一杯酒不会伤着你的！──唉，那好吧！ a devil of a mess/noise/temper/problem 一团糟/吵死人的噪音/极坏的脾气/棘手的问题 the devil you are! 你敢！ the devil he has! 鬼才信他！ the devil (only) knows! 天晓得！ 
④ (expressing sympathy, affection, admiration) 家伙 jiāhuo you poor/lucky/cheeky devil! 你这个可怜的/幸运的/厚脸皮的家伙！ I miss the old devil now that he's gone 现在他走了，我倒挺想念这个老伙计 you crafty devil! 你这个滑头！ 
⑤ (mischievous person) 混蛋 húndàn (annoying thing) 讨厌的事物 tǎoyàn de shìwù [something] is the or a devil to do; 做某事要费九牛二虎之力 this telephone is a devil for going wrong 这部电话动不动就坏 a little devil colloquial 调皮鬼 be a devil! colloquial 怕什么！ 
devil 
ˈdevəl

▶noun
1 (usually the Devil) (in Christian and Jewish belief) the chief evil spirit; Satan. 
• an evil spirit; a demon. 
• a very wicked or cruel person: they prefer voting for devils rather than for decent men. 
• a mischievously clever or self-willed person: the cunning old devil is up to something. 
• [with adjective] informal a person with specified characteristics: the poor devil 
a lucky devil. 
• (the devil) fighting spirit; wildness: he was dangerous when the devil was in him. 
• (the devil) a thing that is very difficult or awkward to do or deal with: it's going to be the very devil to disentangle.
2 (the devil) expressing surprise or annoyance in various questions or exclamations: “Where the devil is he?”
3 an instrument or machine, especially one fitted with sharp teeth or spikes, used for tearing or other destructive work.
4 informal, dated a junior assistant of a lawyer or other professional. See also printer's devil. 
▶verb (devils, deviling, deviled; British devils, devilling, devilled)
1 [no object] informal, dated act as a junior assistant for a lawyer or other professional.
2 [with object] North American harass or worry (someone): he was deviled by a new-found fear. 
PHRASES
between the devil and the deep (blue) sea caught in a dilemma. [alluding to two equally dangerous alternatives.] devil a —— archaic not even one or any: the devil a man of you stirred himself over it. the devil can quote scripture for his purpose proverb people may conceal unworthy motives by reciting words that sound morally authoritative. [with allusion to Jesus' Temptation in Matt. 4.] the devil finds work for idle hands to do proverb someone who doesn't have enough work to do is liable to cause or get into trouble. the devil looks after his own proverb success or good fortune often seem to come to those who least deserve it. a devil of a —— informal used to emphasize great size or degree: we are in a devil of a mess here. the devil is in the details the details of a matter are its most problematic aspect. the devil's own —— informal used to emphasize the difficulty or seriousness of something: he was in the devil's own hurry. (the) devil take the hindmost proverb everyone should (or does) look after their own interests rather than considering those of others: full speed ahead and the devil take the hindmost. [with allusion to a chase by the Devil, in which the slowest will be caught.] the devil to pay serious trouble to be dealt with: there was the devil to pay when we got home. give the devil his due proverb acknowledge the good qualities of even a bad or undeserving person. go to the devil
1 said in angry rejection or condemnation of someone.
2 fall into moral depravity: he must go to the devil in his own way. like the devil with great speed or energy: he drove like the devil. play the devil with have a damaging or disruptive effect on: this brandy plays the devil with one's emotions! speak (or talk) of the devil said when a person appears just after being mentioned. [from the superstition that the devil will appear if his name is spoken.]ORIGIN Old English dēofol (related to Dutch duivel and German Teufel), via late Latin from Greek diabolos ‘accuser, slanderer’ (used in the Septuagint to translate Hebrew śāṭān ‘Satan’), from diaballein ‘to slander,’ from dia ‘across’ + ballein ‘to throw.’
