difference 
BrE ˈdɪf(ə)r(ə)ns, AmE ˈdɪf(ə)rəns 
noun 
① Countable and uncountable(dissimilarity) 差别 chābié what is the difference between the two computers? 这两台电脑有什么不同？ what's the difference? 那有什么关系？ to tell the difference between … (and …) 区分…（和…） I can't tell or see the difference 我看不出有什么不同 to make a/no difference to [something]; 对某事有/没关系 will it make any difference (to you) if we come a little later? 我们晚一点到（对你）有没有关系？ it makes all the or a world of difference 这有天壤之别 what difference does it make if …? 如果…又有什么关系？ as near as makes no difference 基本上一样 with a difference; 与众不同 this is an insurance scheme with a difference 这个保险计划与众不同 a difference of approach 方法上的不同 the difference in the personalities of the twins is remarkable 这对双胞胎性格明显不一样 
② Countable and uncountable(variation in level, cost, age, size) 差额 chā'é to pay the difference 支付差价 to split the difference 折中 the difference between …; …之间的差额 the difference between the return on capital in the two markets 两市场之间的资本回报差 a difference in [something]; 某事物上的差别 the difference in the growth rates 增长率之差 
③ Countable(disagreement) 分歧 fēnqí a difference of opinion 观点分歧 to settle one's differences 消除隔阂 
difference 
ˈdif(ə)rəns

▶noun a point or way in which people or things are not the same: the differences between men and women. 
• the state or condition of being dissimilar or unlike: their difference from one another. 
• a disagreement, quarrel, or dispute: the couple are patching up their differences. 
• a quantity by which amounts differ; the remainder left after subtraction of one value from another: the gross margin is the difference between the total cost of the goods and the final selling price. 
• Heraldry an alteration in a coat of arms to distinguish members or branches of a family. 
▶verb [with object] Heraldry alter (a coat of arms) to distinguish members or branches of a family. 
PHRASES
make a (or no) difference have a significant effect (or no effect) on a person or situation: the law will make no difference to my business. with a difference having a new or unusual feature or treatment: a fashion show with a difference.ORIGIN Middle English: via Old French from Latin differentia (see differentia) .
