dip 
BrE dɪp, AmE dɪp 

A.  transitive verb 
① (immerse) 浸 jìn to dip [something] in or into [something]; 把某物在某液体中浸一下 
② (put partially) 蘸 zhàn to dip [something] in or into [something]; 把某物在某液体中蘸一下 
③ Agriculture 给…洗药浴 gěi… xǐ yàoyù ‹sheep›
④ Technology (plate, galvanize) 浸涂 jìntú ‹metal›
⑤ (lower, bend) 低 dī ‹head›; 屈 qū ‹knee›
⑥ BrE Auto 把…调为近光 bǎ… tiáowéi jìnguāng ‹headlights›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (move downwards) «bird, plane» 俯冲 fǔchōng ; «sun» 下沉 xiàchén ; «head» 低下 dīxia 
② (slope downwards) «land, road» 向下倾斜 xiàng xià qīngxié 
③ (decrease temporarily) «rate, level, speed» 暂时下降 zànshí xià jiàng to dip below [something]; 暂时下降到某水平以下 
④ (put one's hand into) 伸手掏 shēnshǒu tāo to dip into [something]; 伸手到某物中掏 she will have to dip into her savings to pay the bill 她将不得不动用自己的积蓄来付账 
⑤ (browse) to dip into; 浏览 liúlǎn ‹book, archives, records›
C.  noun 
① (short swim) 游一游 yóu yī yóu I'm just going for a dip 我只是去游个泳 
② (hollow) 凹地 āodì there is a bit of a dip in the road here 路这里有点凹陷 
③ (of plane) 下落 xiàluò ; (of head) 低下 dīxia 
④ (decrease) 下降 xiàjiàng a sudden dip in share prices 股票价格的突然下跌 
⑤ Culinary 蘸酱 zhàn jiàng 
⑥ Physics 倾角 qīngjiǎo 
dip 
dip

▶verb (dips, dipping, dipped)
1 [with object] (dip something in/into) put or let something down quickly or briefly in or into (liquid): he dipped a brush in the paint. 
• [no object] (dip into) put a hand or tool into (a bag or container) in order to take something out: Ian dipped into his briefcase and pulled out a photograph. 
• [no object] (dip into) spend from or make use of (one's financial resources): you won't have to dip into your savings. 
• [no object] (dip into) read only parts of (a publication) or explore (a subject) in a desultory manner. 
• take (tobacco) orally. 
• immerse (sheep) in a chemical solution that kills parasites. 
• make (a candle) by immersing a wick repeatedly in hot wax: (as adjective dipped) : dipped candles are made using simple equipment. 
• informal, dated baptize (someone) by immersion in water.
2 [no object] sink, drop, or slope downward: swallows dipped and soared 
the sun had dipped below the horizon. 
• (of a level or amount) become lower or smaller, typically temporarily: the president's popularity has dipped 
audiences dipped below 600,000 for the series. 
• [with object] lower or move (something) downward: the plane dipped its wings. 
▶noun
1 a brief swim: she went for a dip in a pool. 
• a brief immersion in liquid: a dip in hot water is prescribed to destroy fruit flies. 
• short for sheep dip. 
• a cursory read of a publication or a superficial exploration of a subject: a quick dip into this document.
2 a thick sauce in which pieces of food are dunked before eating: tasty garlic dip.
3 a brief downward slope followed by an upward one: the road's precipitous dips and turns. 
• an act of sinking or dropping briefly before rising again: a dip in the share price.
4 technical the extent to which something is angled downward from the horizontal, in particular: 
• (also magnetic dip) the angle made with the horizontal at any point by the earth's magnetic field, or by a magnetic needle in response to this. 
• Geology the angle a stratum makes with the horizontal: the cliff profile tends to be dominated by the dip of the beds. 
• Astronomy & Surveying the apparent depression of the horizon from the line of observation, due to the curvature of the earth.
5 US informal powdered or finely cut tobacco that is held in the mouth, typically between the gums and lip, rather than smoked: he threw out all of his cans of dip and swore off tobacco.
6 North American informal a stupid or foolish person.
7 informal, dated a pickpocket.
8 archaic a candle made by immersing a wick repeatedly in hot wax. 
PHRASES
dip one's toe into (or in) put one's toe briefly in (water), typically to check the temperature. 
• begin to do or test (something) cautiously: the company has already dipped its toe into the market.ORIGIN Old English dyppan, of Germanic origin; related to deep .
