direction 
BrE dɪˈrɛkʃ(ə)n, dʌɪˈrɛkʃ(ə)n, AmE dəˈrɛkʃ(ə)n, daɪˈrɛkʃ(ə)n 

A.  noun 
① Countable and uncountableliteral (route) 方向 fāngxiàng in the direction of … 在…方向 in the right/wrong direction 朝正确/错误的方向 from all directions 从四面八方 to have a good/bad sense of direction 方向感好/不好 
② Countable and uncountablefigurative 动向 dòngxiàng a step in the right direction 在正确方向上迈出的一步 to lack direction 迷失方向 
③ UncountableCinema, Radio, Television, Theatre 导演 dǎoyǎn Music 指挥 zhǐhuī under the direction of … 在…的指挥下 
④ Uncountable(control, guidance) 指导 zhǐdǎo under the direction of …; 在…的指导下 
B.  directions noun plural 
① (for route) 指引 zhǐyǐn to give [somebody] directions 给某人指路 to ask for directions to a place 问路 
② (for use) 指南 zhǐnán directions for use 用法说明 
direction 
dəˈrekSH(ə)n dīˈrekSH(ə)n

▶noun
1 a course along which someone or something moves: she set off in the opposite direction 
the storm was expected to take a more northwesterly direction. 
• the course that must be taken in order to reach a destination: he had a terrible sense of direction. 
• a point to or from which a person or thing moves or faces: a house with views in all directions 
figurative : support came from an unexpected direction. 
• a general way in which someone or something is developing: new directions in painting and architecture 
any dialogue between them is a step in the right direction 
it is time to change direction and find a new job. 
• general aim or purpose: the campaign's lack of direction.
2 the management or guidance of someone or something: under his direction, the college has developed an international reputation. 
• the work of supervising and controlling the actors and other staff in a movie, play, or other production. 
• (directions) instructions on how to reach a destination or about how to do something: Preston gave him directions to a restaurant 
directions for making puff pastry. 
• an authoritative order or command: to suggest that members of Congress would take direction on how to vote is an affront. 
PHRASES
sense of direction a person's ability to know without explicit guidance the direction in which they are or should be moving.ORIGIN late Middle English ( sense 2): from Latin directio(n-), from the verb dirigere (see direct) .
