discount 
A.  /BrE ˈdɪskaʊnt, AmE ˈdɪskaʊnt
nounUncountable and countable
① (price reduction) 折扣 zhékòu to get/give a discount; 得到/给予折扣 to get/give a discount on [something]; 打折买/卖某物 at a discount; 打折地 discount for cash 用现金有折扣 to be sold at a discount «shares» 低于票面值出售 
② Finance 贴现 tiēxiàn 
B.  /BrE dɪsˈkaʊnt, AmE ˈdɪskaʊnt
transitive verb 
① (reject) 不予考虑 bù yǔ kǎolǜ ‹possibility, approach›
② (reduce price of) 打折出售 dǎzhé chūshòu ‹goods›
③ Finance 把…贴现 bǎ… tiēxiàn 
discount 
ˈdiskount

▶noun a deduction from the usual cost of something, typically given for prompt or advance payment or to a special category of buyers: many stores will offer a discount on bulk purchases. 
• Finance a percentage deducted from the face value of a bill of exchange or promissory note when it changes hands before the due date. 
▶verb 
ˌdisˈkount 
[with object]
1 deduct an amount from (the usual price of something): (as adjective discounted) : current users qualify for a discounted price. 
• reduce (a product or service) in price: merchandise that was deeply discounted—up to 50 percent 
(as adjective discounted) : discounted books. 
• buy or sell (a bill of exchange) before its due date at less than its maturity value.
2 regard (a possibility, fact, or person) as being unworthy of consideration because it lacks credibility: I'd heard rumors, but discounted them. 
▶adjective (of a store or business) offering goods for sale at discounted prices: a discount drugstore chain. 
• at a price lower than the usual one: a discount flight. 
PHRASES
at a discount below the nominal or usual price: a plan that allows tenants to buy their homes at a discount. Compare with at a premium (see premium). DERIVATIVES discountable 
ˌdisˈkoun(t)əb(ə)l 
adjectiveORIGIN early 17th century (denoting a reduction in the amount or value of something): from obsolete French descompte (noun), descompter (verb), or (in commercial contexts) from Italian (di)scontare, both from medieval Latin discomputare, from Latin dis- (expressing reversal) + computare (see compute) .
