dish 
BrE dɪʃ, AmE dɪʃ 

A.  noun 
① (plate) 盘子 pánzi 
② (food) 一盘 yī pán 
③ (recipe) 一道菜 yī dào cài a hot/side dish 热菜/小菜 
④ (receptacle) 碟状物 diézhuàngwù a soap dish 肥皂碟 
⑤ Television 抛物面天线 pāowùmiàn tiānxiàn 
⑥ colloquial (good-looking person) 漂亮的人 piàoliang de rén (sexy person) 性感的人 xìnggǎn de rén 
B.  dishes noun plural 待洗餐具 dài xǐ cānjù to do or wash the dishes 洗碗 
C.  transitive verb especially BrE colloquial dated 毁掉 huǐdiào ‹chances›to dish the dirt about or on [somebody]/[something] 说某人/某事的闲话 PHRASAL VERBS dish out transitive verb[dish out something], [dish something out] 
① (serve) 把…分到盘里 bǎ… fēndào pán li ‹food, helping›
② (distribute) 分发 fēnfā ‹money, leaflets›; 布置 bùzhì ‹homework›
③ (dole out) 提出 tíchū ‹advice›; 给予 jǐyǔ ‹punishment, insults›to dish it out colloquial 数落人 dish up transitive verb[dish up something], [dish something up] 
① (serve) 端上 duānshang to dish up (the) dinner/the food 端上晚饭/饭菜 
② (come up with) 提出 tíchū ‹argument, idea›; 找出 zhǎochū ‹excuse›
dish 
diSH

▶noun
1 a shallow, typically flat-bottomed container for cooking or serving food: an ovenproof dish. 
• the food contained or served in a dish: a dish of oysters. 
• a particular variety or preparation of food served as part of a meal: fresh fish dishes 
pasta was served as a main dish. 
• (the dishes) all the items that have been used in the preparation, serving, and eating of a meal: it was our turn to wash the dishes. 
• [usually with modifier] a shallow, concave receptacle, especially one intended to hold a particular substance: a water dish. 
• (also dish aerial) a bowl-shaped radio antenna. See also satellite dish.
2 informal a sexually attractive person: I gather she's quite a dish. 
• (one's dish) dated a thing that one particularly enjoys or does well: as a public relations man this was my dish and the campaign was right up my street.
3 (the dish) informal information that is not generally known or available: if he has the real dish I wish he'd tell us.
4 concavity of a spoked wheel resulting from a difference in spoke tension on each side and consequent sideways displacement of the rim in relation to the hub. 
▶verb [with object]
1 (dish something out/up) put (food) onto a plate or plates before a meal: Steve was dishing up vegetables. 
• (dish something out) dispense something in a casual or indiscriminate way: the banks dished out loans to all and sundry. 
• (dish something up) offer or present something, especially something regarded as substandard: is your ISP short-changing you by dishing up outdated and perhaps incorrect information? 
• (dish it out) informal subject others to criticism or punishment: you can dish it out but you can't take it. 
• [no object] North American informal gossip or share information, especially information of an intimate or scandalous nature: groups gather to brag about babies and dish about romances.
2 informal, chiefly British utterly destroy, confound, or defeat (someone or something).
3 give concavity to (a wheel) by tensioning the spokes. See sense
4 of the noun. 
PHRASES
dish the dirt informal reveal or spread scandalous information or gossip.PHRASAL VERBS dish something off US pass the ball to a teammate, especially in basketball.DERIVATIVES dishful 
ˈdiSHˌfo͝ol 
noun (plural dishfuls) ORIGIN Old English disc ‘plate, bowl’ (related to Dutch dis,German Tisch ‘table’), based on Latin discus (see discus).
