display 
BrE dɪˈspleɪ, AmE dəˈspleɪ 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countableBusn (goods for sale) 陈列品 chénlièpǐn (showing goods for sale) 陈列 chénliè to put [something] on display; 把某物陈列出来 the displays in the shoe shop window 鞋店橱窗里的陈列品 for display purposes only 仅供陈列 
② Uncountable and countable(collection for looking at) 展品 zhǎnpǐn to be on display; 被展出 to go on display; 进行展出 to put [something] on (temporary/permanent) display （临时/永久）展出某物 for display 用来展出 a beautiful floral display 漂亮的花卉展品 do not touch the display 勿碰展品 
③ Countable(decorative arrangement) 展览 zhǎnlǎn to mount a display 举办展览 
④ Countable(demonstration) 表演 biǎoyǎn to put on/mount a display (of [something]) 进行（某节目的）表演 an aerobatic display team 特技飞行表演队 
⑤ Countable(intentional show) 表现 biǎoxiàn (unintentional show) 流露 liúlù in a display of [something]; 作为某物的表现 to make a display of [something]; 展示某物 a display of might 力量的显示 
⑥ Countable(pretence) [装出的] 样子 yàngzi to make a great display of …; 极力装出…的样子 
⑦ CountableZoology 求偶炫耀 qiú'ǒu xuànyào 
⑧ CountablePrinting, Busn 特排 tè pái display typeface/caption 特排字体/说明文字 
⑨ CountableElectronics, Computing, Television (representation) 显示 xiǎnshì (information) 显示的信息 xiǎnshì de xìnxī (monitor) 显示器 xiǎnshìqì the brightness of the display 显示屏的亮度 a display screen/unit 显示屏/装置 
B.  transitive verb 
① Busn 陈列 chénliè ‹goods›
② (set out visibly) 张贴 zhāngtiē ‹notice, advertisement›; 公布 gōngbù ‹list of winners›; 悬挂 xuánguà ‹flag›; 出示 chūshì ‹permit, pass›; 标示 biāoshì ‹time, price, words, figures, logo›
③ (exhibit) 展出 zhǎnchū ‹object›
④ Electronics, Computing 显示 xiǎnshì ‹data, information›
⑤ pejorative (flaunt) 炫耀 xuànyào ‹wealth, beauty, knowledge›
⑥ (expose to view) 显示出 xiǎnshì chū ‹physical feature, colour›
⑦ (give evidence of) 表现出 biǎoxiàn chū ‹ignorance, emotion, virtue, strength›
C.  intransitive verb (exhibit distinctive behaviour) «male animal» 求偶炫耀 qiú'ǒu xuànyào ; (extend feathers) «bird» 展开尾羽 zhǎnkāi wěiyǔ these peacocks rarely display 这些孔雀难得开屏 
display 
dəˈsplā

▶verb [with object] make a prominent exhibition of (something) in a place where it can be easily seen: the palace used to display a series of Flemish tapestries 
a handwritten notice was displayed in the ticket office. 
• (of a computer or other device) show (information) on a screen. 
• give a conspicuous demonstration of (a quality, emotion, or skill): the aggressive kind of baseball he displayed as a player. 
• [no object] (of a male bird, reptile, or fish) engage in a specialized pattern of behavior that is intended to attract a mate: she photographed the peacock, which chose that moment to display. 
▶noun
1 a performance, show, or event intended for public entertainment: a display of fireworks. 
• a collection of objects arranged for public viewing: the museum houses an informative display of rocks 
work by lesser-known artists is also on display 
[as modifier] : a display case. 
• a notable or conspicuous demonstration of a particular type of behavior, emotion, or skill: a display of great virtuosity. 
• conspicuous or flashy exhibition; ostentation: a flagrant display of wealth. 
• a specialized pattern of behavior by the males of some species of birds, reptiles, and fish that is intended to attract a mate: the teal were indulging in delightful courtship displays. 
• Printing the arrangement and choice of type in a style intended to attract attention.
2 an electronic device for the visual presentation of data: a 17-inch color display 
[as modifier] : a visual display screen. 
• the process or facility of presenting data on a computer screen or other device: the processing and display of high volumes of information. 
• the data shown on a computer screen or other device. DERIVATIVES displayer nounORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘unfurl, unfold’): from Old French despleier, from Latin displicare ‘scatter, disperse’ (in medieval Latin ‘unfold’). Compare with deploy .
