dispose 
BrE dɪˈspəʊz, AmE dəˈspoʊz 
transitive verb 
① (encourage) 使倾向于 shǐ qīngxiàng yú to dispose [somebody] to [something]/to do [something]; 使某人倾向于某事/做某事 
② formal (arrange) 布置 bùzhì ‹furniture, ornaments›; 部署 bùshǔ ‹troops›man proposes, but God disposes proverb 谋事在人，成事在天 PHRASAL VERB dispose of transitive verb[dispose of something/somebody] 
① (get rid of) 清除 qīngchú ‹bomb›; 销毁 xiāohuǐ ‹evidence›; 处理掉 chǔlǐ diào ‹rubbish, waste›
② (deal with) 解决 jiějué to dispose of all the food 把食物全吃光 to dispose of the opposition in a decisive 4-0 win 以4比0的绝对优势战胜对手 
③ (redistribute through sale) 卖掉 màidiào ; (redistribute as gift) 赠送 zèngsòng 
④ (kill) 杀死 shāsǐ to dispose of mice 灭鼠 
dispose 
dəˈspōz

▶verb
1 [no object] (dispose of) get rid of by throwing away or giving or selling to someone else: whose responsibility is it to dispose of scrap materials? 
people now have substantial assets to dispose of after their death. 
• informal kill; destroy: her lover came up with hundreds of schemes for disposing of her husband. 
• overcome (a rival or threat): team members were buoyant after they disposed of the champions. 
• informal consume (food or drink) quickly or enthusiastically: she watched him dispose of a large slice of cheese.
2 [with object] arrange in a particular position: the chief disposed his attendants in a circle. 
• bring (someone) into a particular frame of mind: prolactin is released, disposing you toward sleep 
cruelty that brutalizes young minds and disposes them to violence. 
• [no object] literary determine the course of events: the city proposed, but the unions disposed. [from the proverb ‘Man proposes, (but) God disposes,’ translating Latin Homo proponit, sed Deus disponit (Thomas à Kempis's De Imitatione Christ i. xix).] DERIVATIVES disposer 
dəˈspōzər 
noun a waste disposer 
a disposer of grants and subsidiesORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French disposer, from Latin disponere ‘arrange,’ influenced by dispositus ‘arranged’ and Old French poser ‘to place.’
