dissolve 
BrE dɪˈzɒlv, AmE dəˈzɑlv 

A.  transitive verb 
① (liquefy) 使溶解 shǐ róngjiě dissolve the sugar in water 把糖溶于水中 
② (break up) 解除 jiěchú ‹partnership, marriage›; 解散 jiěsàn ‹assembly, meeting, organization, parliament›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (liquefy) 溶解 róngjiě salt dissolves in water 盐溶于水 
② (disappear) «hopes» 破灭 pòmiè ; «fear, feelings» 消失 xiāoshī ; «courage» 丧失 sàngshī to dissolve into thin air 消失得无影无踪 to dissolve in or into tears 不禁潸然泪下 
③ (break up) «assembly, meeting, parliament» 解散 jiěsàn 
④ Cinema, Television 叠化 diéhuà one scene dissolves into another 一个镜头淡入另一个镜头 
C.  noun Cinema, Television 叠化 diéhuà 
dissolve 
▶verb
1 sugar dissolves in water: go into solution, break down; liquefy, deliquesce, disintegrate.
2 his hopes dissolved: disappear, vanish, melt away, evaporate, disperse, dissipate, disintegrate; dwindle, fade (away), wither; literary evanesce.
3 the crowd dissolved: disperse, disband, break up, scatter, go in different directions.
4 the assembly was dissolved: disband, disestablish, bring to an end, end, terminate, discontinue, close down, wind up/down, suspend; prorogue, adjourn.
5 their marriage was dissolved: annul, nullify, void, invalidate, overturn, revoke.
PHRASES
dissolve into/in she dissolved into tears: burst into, break (down) into, be overcome with. REFLECTIONS David Thomsondissolve In the laboratory or the kitchen, a dissolve occurs when one substance blends with a fluid to make something new. But in the divorce court, when a marriage is dissolved, it is meant to go away all together—so that we can start again? But most divorced parties know a suspended solution lingers, crystal sometimes, even if it is more questions than answers. And on the movie screen, once, there was enough sense of the rapture in cinema, and the liquid invitation of the screen that dissolves—quick and slow, slower still, or still—could slip one image into another, and another. We swam in the movies then, going into their dangerous deep end. You can see these mirages in the 40s and the 50s, when the dream was wet—try Citizen Kane (a film about being lost in the snow) or A Place in the Sun (a story that turns on drowning).Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
