distinguish 
BrE dɪˈstɪŋɡwɪʃ, AmE dəˈstɪŋɡwɪʃ 

A.  transitive verb 
① (differentiate) 区分 qūfēn to distinguish [somebody]/[something] from [somebody]/[something]; 将…和…区分开来 to distinguish right from wrong 明辨是非 
② (mark out) 使得以区分 shǐ déyǐ qūfēn ; (characterize) 是…的特征 shì… de tèzhēng what distinguishes sport from games? 体育何以有别于游戏？ 
③ (make out) 辨别出 biànbié chū 
B.  intransitive verb 区分 qūfēn to distinguish between red and green 分辨红色和绿色 
C.  reflexive verb to distinguish oneself by doing [something]; 因做某事而受人注目 yīn zuò mǒu shì ér shòu rén zhùmù to distinguish oneself as [something] 作为…而享有盛名 zuòwéi… ér xiǎngyǒu shèngmíng 
distinguish 
▶verb
1 distinguishing reality from fantasy: differentiate, tell apart, discriminate between, tell the difference between.
2 he could distinguish shapes in the dark: discern, see, perceive, make out; detect, recognize, identify; literary descry, espy.
3 this is what distinguishes history from other disciplines: separate, set apart, make distinctive, make different; single out, mark off, characterize.
PHRASES
distinguish oneself she distinguished herself in the air corps: attain distinction, be successful, bring fame/honor to oneself, become famous. CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD distinguish, descry, differentiate, discern, discriminate What we discern we see apart from all other objects (to discern the lighthouse beaming on the far shore). Descry puts even more emphasis on the distant or unclear nature of what we're seeing (the lookout was barely able to descry a man approaching in the dusk). To discriminate is to perceive the differences between or among things that are very similar; it may suggest that some aesthetic evaluation is involved (to discriminate between two painters' styles). Distinguish requires making even finer distinctions among things that resemble each other even more closely (unable to distinguish the shadowy figures moving through the forest). Distinguish can also refer to recognizing by some special mark or outward sign (the sheriff could be distinguished by his silver badge). Differentiate, on the other hand, suggests the ability to perceive differences between things that are easily confused. In contrast to distinguish, differentiate suggests subtle differences that must be compared in some detail (the color of her dress was difficult to differentiate from the color of the chair in which she was seated; it took a sharp eye to distinguish where her skirt ended and the upholstery began). If you have trouble differentiating among these closely related verbs, you're not alone.These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
