dive 
BrE dʌɪv, AmE daɪv 

A.  intransitive verb(past tense dived, AmE dove) 
① (into water) 跳水 tiàoshuǐ 
② (as hobby, job) 潜水 qiánshuǐ ; (underwater) «submarine, fish, diver» 下潜 xiàqián 
③ (in air) «aircraft, bird, flying insect» 俯冲 fǔchōng 
④ (lunge) 猛冲 měng chōng (move quickly) 猛地伸手 měng de shēnshǒu to dive under the bed/into the bushes 急忙钻到床底下/灌木丛里 to dive into one's pocket/bag colloquial 突然把手伸进口袋/袋子 he dived into it with missionary zeal figurative 他以传教士般的热情投入其中 
⑤ (drop suddenly) «profit, price, sales» 突然下降 tūrán xiàjiàng ; «hopes» 突然失落 tūrán shīluò ; «fortunes» 突然转坏 tūrán zhuǎnhuài 
B.  noun 
① (plunge into water) 跳水 tiàoshuǐ 
② (swimming under sea) 潜水 qiánshuǐ ; (movement to deeper level) 下潜 xiàqián to be on a dive 在潜水 
③ (steep descent of aircraft, bird) 俯冲 fǔchōng to go into a dive 开始俯冲 to pull out of a dive 停止俯冲 
④ (lunge) 猛扑 měng pū to make a dive for [something] 扑向某物 
⑤ Sport (in soccer) 假摔 jiǎshuāi (in boxing) 佯装被击倒 yángzhuāng bèi jīdǎo to take a dive «boxer» 佯装被击倒 yángzhuāng bèi jīdǎo «footballer» 假摔 jiǎshuāi 
⑥ (sudden drop) (in profits, prices) 突然下降 tūrán xiàjiàng (of hopes) 突然失落 tūrán shīluò to take a dive 突然下降 tūrán xiàjiàng the party's fortunes have taken a dive 该党的时运急转直下 
⑦ colloquial pejorative (bar) 低级酒馆 dījí jiǔguǎn (club) 低级夜总会 dījí yèzǒnghuì PHRASAL VERBS dive for transitive verb[dive for something] 
① (in water) «diver» 潜水寻找 qiánshuǐ xúnzhǎo ‹pearls, coral, wrecks›
② Sport to dive for the ball «player, goalkeeper» 鱼跃扑球 yúyuè pū qiú 
③ (move quickly towards) 扑向 pūxiàng ‹exit, door›to dive for cover 冲向躲避处 dive in intransitive verb 
① (into water) 跳入水中 tiàorù shuǐ zhōng 
② (enter quickly) 冲进来 chōng jinlai 
③ figurative (act impulsively) 冲动行事 chōngdòng xíngshì 
dive 
dīv

▶verb (past dived or dove 
dōv
; past participle dived) [no object]
1 [with adverbial of direction] plunge head first into water: she walked to the deep end, then she dived in 
he dived off the bridge for a bet. 
• (of a fish, a submarine, or a vessel used for underwater exploration) go to a deeper level in water: the fish dive down to about 1,400 feet and then swim southwest. 
• swim underwater using breathing equipment: he had been diving in the area to test equipment.
2 (of an aircraft or bird) plunge steeply downward through the air: the aircraft dove for the ground to avoid the attack. 
• move quickly or suddenly in a specified direction: a bullet passed close to his head, and he dived for cover 
(as adjective diving) : he attempted a diving catch. 
• (of prices or profits) drop suddenly: profits before tax dived by 61 percent. 
• informal put one's hand quickly into something, especially a pocket or purse, in order to find something: she dived into her bag and extracted a card. 
• Soccer & Ice Hockey, informal (of a player) deliberately fall when challenged in order to deceive the referee into awarding a foul. 
▶noun
1 a plunge head first into water: he hit the sea in a shallow dive 
a high dive. 
• an instance of swimming or going deeper under water: divers should have a good intake of fluid before each dive.
2 a steep descent by an aircraft or bird: the jumbo jet went into a dive. See also nosedive. 
• a sudden movement in a specified direction: she made a dive for the fridge to quench her raging thirst. 
• a sudden and significant fall in prices or profits: an
11 percent dive in profits. 
• Soccer & Ice Hockey, informal a deliberate fall by a player, intended to deceive the referee into awarding a foul.
3 (also dive bar) informal a shabby or sleazy bar or similar establishment: he got into a fight in some dive 
a detective story set in the smoky clubs and dive bars of 1940s Los Angeles. 
PHRASES
take a dive Boxing pretend to be knocked out. 
• (of prices, hopes, fortunes, etc.) fall suddenly: profits could take a dive as easily as they could soar 
her reputation took a dive from which it has not recovered.PHRASAL VERBS dive in help oneself to food. dive into occupy oneself suddenly and enthusiastically with (a meal, or an engrossing subject or activity): dive into a barbecued beef burrito.ORIGIN Old English dūfan ‘dive, sink’ and dȳfan ‘immerse,’ of Germanic origin; related to deep and dip .
