dog 
BrE dɒɡ, AmE dɔɡ 

A.  noun 
① (domesticated animal) 狗 gǒu our pet dog 我们的宠物狗 it shouldn't happen to a dog 这事太不像话 I wouldn't give this food to a dog 这种食物我连狗都不会喂的 it's dog eat dog 竞争残酷无情 it's a dog eat dog world 这是个残酷无情的世界 a dog in the manger 占着茅坑不拉屎的人 to go and see a man about a dog colloquial 有点事儿出去一下 to put on the dog AmE colloquial (behave in an unpleasant, grand way) 架子大 (show off) 耍派头 a dog's dinner or breakfast BrE colloquial 一团糟 to be dressed or got up like a dog's dinner BrE colloquial pejorative 穿得花里胡哨 a dog's chance 渺茫的机会 ［一般用于否定句］they don't have a dog's chance 他们毫无机会 love me, love my dog 爱屋及乌 every dog has his or its day proverb 人人皆有得意日 give a dog a bad name (and hang him) proverb 人言可畏 it's a dog's life 这是猪狗不如的生活 to treat [somebody] like a dog 待某人如猪狗 you wouldn't put a dog out on a night like this 今晚天气太糟了 to be as sick as a dog colloquial 呕吐得厉害 like a dog with two tails 得意洋洋 
② (wild animal of the dog family) 犬科动物 quǎnkē dòngwù 
③ (male dog, fox, wolf) 犬科雄兽 quǎnkē xióng shòu a dog fox/wolf 公狐狸/公狼 
④ colloquial pejorative (bad person) 卑鄙小人 bēibǐ xiǎorén you dirty/vile dog! 你这个无赖！ 
⑤ colloquial (person of a specific kind) 家伙 jiāhuo you lucky dog! 你真走运！ he's a crafty old dog 他老奸巨猾 there's life in the old dog yet 人老心不老 
⑥ colloquial pejorative (unattractive woman) 丑女 chǒu nǚ 
⑦ especially AmE colloquial (something of poor quality) 蹩脚货 biéjiǎohuò a dog of a film 粗制滥造的电影 
B.  dogs noun plural 
① BrE Sport colloquial the dogs; 赛狗 sàigǒu to bet on (the) dogs 赌狗 dǔgǒu to go to the dogs (lose good qualities) 堕落 duòluò (become unsuccessful) 衰败 shuāibài 
② AmE colloquial (feet) 双脚 shuāngjiǎo 
C.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -gg-) 
① (follow closely) 紧跟 jǐngēn ‹person›to dog [somebody's] footsteps or heels 尾随某人 
② (plague) 困扰 kùnrǎo to be dogged by misfortune 被灾祸困扰 poor health dogged his boyhood 他儿时多病 
dog 
dôɡ

▶noun
1 a domesticated carnivorous mammal that typically has a long snout, an acute sense of smell, and a barking, howling, or whining voice. It is widely kept as a pet or for work or field sports. [Canis familiaris, family Canidae (the dog family); probably domesticated from the wolf in the Mesolithic period. The dog family also includes the wolves, coyotes, jackals, and foxes.] 
• a wild animal of the dog family. 
• the male of an animal of the dog family, or of some other mammals such as the otter: [as modifier] : a dog fox.
2 informal a person regarded as unpleasant, contemptible, or wicked (used as a term of abuse): come out, Michael, you dog! 
• [with adjective] dated used to refer to a person of a specified kind in a tone of playful reproof, commiseration, or congratulation: you lucky dog! 
• used in various phrases to refer to someone who is abject or miserable, especially because they have been treated harshly: I make him work like a dog 
Rob was treated like a dog. 
• informal, derogatory a woman regarded as unattractive. 
• informal, chiefly North American a thing of poor quality; a failure: a dog of a movie.
3 short for firedog.
4 a mechanical device for gripping.
5 (dogs) North American informal feet: if only I could sit down and rest my tired dogs. 
▶verb (dogs, dogging, dogged) [with object]
1 follow (someone or their movements) closely and persistently: photographers seemed to dog her every step. 
• (of a problem) cause continual trouble for: their finance committee has been dogged by controversy.
2 (dog it) informal, chiefly North American act lazily; fail to try one's hardest.
3 grip (something) with a mechanical device: [with object and complement] : she has dogged the door shut. 
PHRASES
dog eat dog used to refer to a situation of fierce competition in which people are willing to harm each other in order to succeed: in this business, it's always dog eat dog 
popular music is a dog-eat-dog industry. a dog's age North American informal a very long time: the best I've seen in a dog's age. a dog's life an unhappy existence, full of problems or unfair treatment. the dogs of war literary the havoc accompanying military conflict. [from Shakespeare's Julius Caesar (iii. 1. 274).] every dog has its day proverb everyone will have good luck or success at some point in their lives. go to the dogs informal deteriorate shockingly: the country is going to the dogs. hair of the dog see hair. let sleeping dogs lie see sleep. not a dog's chance no chance at all. put on the dog North American informal behave in a pretentious or ostentatious way: we have to put on the dog for Anne Marie. rain cats and dogs see rain. (as) sick as a dog see sick1. throw someone to the dogs discard someone as worthless: the weak and oppressed must not be thrown to the dogs. you can't teach an old dog new tricks proverb you cannot make people change their established patterns of opinion and behavior.DERIVATIVES doglike 
ˈdôɡˌlīk 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English docga, of unknown origin.
