door 
BrE dɔː, AmE dɔr 
noun 
① (barrier) 门 mén (doorway) 门道 méndào to knock at or on the door 敲门 there's somebody at the door 门口有人 the door to the kitchen 通往厨房的门 a four-door car 一辆四门汽车 their house is a few doors down 隔几户人家就是他们的房子 behind closed or locked doors 秘密地 to see [somebody] to the door 把某人送到门口 to go (from) door to door 挨家挨户敲门 the journey takes about an hour door to door 全程要花大约一个小时 out of doors 在户外 to lay [something] at [somebody's] door 把某事归咎于某人 to lie at [somebody's] door 归咎于某人 at death's door 行将就木的 to show [somebody] the door 向某人下逐客令 
② (entrance) 门口 ménkǒu to be on the door 守门 ‘pay at the door’ “门口交费” 
③ (opportunity) 门路 ménlu to open the door(s) to [something] 打开通向某事物的大门 a foot in the door 成功的第一步 to close or shut the door on or to [something] 把某事的门堵死 to leave or keep the door open (for [something]) （为某事）留有余地 to shut or slam the door on [somebody] or in [somebody's] face literal 将某人拒之门外 figurative 拒绝见某人 jùjué jiàn mǒu rén when one door closes, another one opens 当一扇门关闭时，另一扇就打开了 
door 
dôr

▶noun a hinged, sliding, or revolving barrier at the entrance to a building, room, or vehicle, or in the framework of a cupboard. 
• a doorway: she walked through the door. 
• used to refer to the distance from one building in a row to another: they lived within three doors of each other. 
PHRASES
at the door on admission to an event rather than in advance: tickets will be available at the door. close (or shut) the door on (or to) exclude the opportunity for: she had closed the door on ever finding out what he was feeling.(from) door to door
1 from start to finish of a journey: the trip from door to door could take more than four hours.
2 visiting all the houses in an area to sell or publicize something: he went from door to door selling insurance policies 
[as adjective] : a door-to-door salesman. lay something at someone's door regard someone as responsible for something: the failure is laid at the door of the government. leave the door open ensure that there is still an opportunity for something: he is leaving the door open for future change. open doors (or the door) create opportunities for success: even a small effort to speak a local language can open doors 
internships can open doors for college students 
her research has opened the door to a deeper understanding of the subject.out of doors 
ˈˌoud əv ˈdô(ə)rz 
in or into the open air: food tastes even better out of doors. show someone the door see show. DERIVATIVES doored adjective [in combination] : a glass-doored deskORIGIN Old English duru, dor, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch deur ‘door’ and German Tür ‘door,’ Tor ‘gate’; from an Indo-European root shared by Latin foris ‘gate’ and Greek thura ‘door.’
