dot 
BrE dɒt, AmE dɑt 

A.  noun 
① (small round mark) 小圆点 xiǎo yuándiǎn the letter ‘i’has a dot on top 字母i上面有一点 the wallpaper is white with blue dots 墙纸是白底蓝点的 on the dot colloquial 准时地 the year dot BrE colloquial 很久以前 
② (full stop) 句点 jùdiǎn three dots indicate an omission 3个句点表示省略 
③ Music (to lengthen note, indicate staccato) 附点 fùdiǎn 
④ (in Morse code) 点 diǎn dot dot dash 点点画 
⑤ (faraway object) 点状物 diǎnzhuàngwù the helicopters looked like two black dots 直升机看上去像两个小黑点 
B.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -tt-) 
① (in writing) 在…上加点 zài… shang jiā diǎn ‹an i›dot the i's and cross the t's 做最后的修改 
② Music 在…上加附点 zài… shang jiā fùdiǎn ‹musical note›
③ (be scattered over) 散布于 sànbù yú (scatter) 使散布 shǐ sànbù fishing villages dot the coast 渔村散布在海岸边 we've dotted a few chairs about 我们在周围放了几把椅子 
④ BrE colloquial (hit) 打 dǎ I'll dot you one! 我要揍你一拳！ 
dot
1 
dät

▶noun a small round mark or spot: a symbol depicted in colored dots. 
• a dot written or printed as part of an i or j, as a diacritical mark, as one of a series of marks to signify omission, or as a period. 
• Music a dot used to denote the lengthening of a note or rest by half, or to indicate staccato. 
• the shorter signal of the two used in Morse code. Compare with dash ( sense
3 of the noun). 
• used to refer to an object that appears tiny because it is far away: the desert shrank figures to mere dots. 
• used to indicate the punctuation separating parts of an email or website address: drop me a note at heatvision dot com. 
▶verb (dots, dotting, dotted) [with object] mark with a small spot or spots: wet spots of rain began to dot his shirt. 
• (of a number of items) be scattered over (an area): churches dot the countryside. 
• place a dot over (a letter): you need to dot the i. 
• Music mark (a note or rest) to show that the time value is increased by half: (as adjective dotted) : a dotted quarter note. 
PHRASES
dot the i's and cross the t's informal ensure that all details are correct. on the dot informal exactly on time: he arrived on the dot at nine o'clock.DERIVATIVES dotter nounORIGIN Old English dott ‘head of a boil.’ The word is recorded only once in Old English, then not until the late 16th century, when it is found in the sense ‘a small lump or clot,’ perhaps influenced by Dutch dot ‘a knot.’ The sense ‘small mark or spot’ dates from the mid 17th century.
