double 
BrE ˈdʌb(ə)l, AmE ˈdəb(ə)l 

A.  adjective 
① (intended for two) 供两者用的 gōng liǎngzhě yòng de a double garage 双车库 a double ticket/invitation 双人票/双人邀请 
② (twice as much, twofold) 两倍的 liǎng bèi de they earn double what you earn 他们挣的是你的两倍 it will take double the time 那要花两倍时间 she is double his age 她的年纪比他大一倍 a double helping of potato(es) 双份的土豆 four double whiskies 4杯双份威士忌酒 
③ (consisting of two) 成双的 chéngshuāng de ‹line, stripe, track›; 双层的 shuāngcéng de ‹lining, coat›; 双写的 shuāngxiě de ‹letter›in double digits 达两位数 a double-page advertisement 双页广告 a double murder 一起两人丧命的谋杀案 six four double three five 64335 
④ (duplicitous) 双重的 shuāngchóng de ‹purpose, advantage, meaning›to lead a double life 过双重生活 to play a double game 耍两面派 
⑤ Botany 重瓣的 chóngbàn de ‹flower›
B.  adverb 
① (twice as much) 两倍地 liǎng bèi de this counts double for older people 这一点对年长者来说倍加重要 
② (so as to be twice as much) 重叠地 chóngdié de to see double 看到重影 to fold the blanket double 把毯子对折 to be bent double with pain/laughter 疼得/笑得弯下腰 
C.  pronoun 两倍 liǎng bèi he paid me the double of what he owed me 他把欠款加倍还给了我 double or quits BrE,double or nothing AmE 要么双倍赢钱，要么输个精光 
D.  transitive verb 
① (increase twofold) 把…增加一倍 bǎ… zēngjiā yī bèi ‹number, size, price, dose›
② (fold in two) 把…对折 bǎ… duìzhé ‹cloth, paper›
③ (in writing) 双写 shuāngxiě ‹letter, number›
④ (clench) 握紧 wòjǐn ‹fist›
⑤ Music [在高或低八度上] 重复 chóngfù ‹note›
⑥ (in cards) 把…加倍 bǎ… jiābèi ‹bid, stakes›two hearts doubled 两个红桃加倍 
E.  intransitive verb 
① (increase twofold) 增加一倍 zēngjiā yī bèi to double in number/strength/size/value; 数量/力量/大小/价值翻倍 
② (serve dual purpose) 兼作 jiānzuò the sofa doubles (up) as a bed 这张沙发兼作床用 
③ (have two jobs) 兼任 jiānrèn to double as [something]/[somebody]; 兼任某职位/某角色 the actor doubled as the king in Act III 这位演员在第三幕兼演国王一角 
④ Music «musician» 兼奏 jiānzòu to double on …; 兼奏… 
⑤ Cinema, Theatre 做替身演员 zuò tìshēn yǎnyuán to double for [somebody]; 做某演员的替身 
⑥ (in bridge) 叫加倍 jiào jiābèi 
F.  noun 
① (quick pace) at the double BrE, on the double AmE 步伐快速地 bùfá kuàisù de 
② (identical person) 酷似的人 kùsì de rén the double of [somebody]; 与某人一模一样的人 
③ Cinema, Theatre 替身演员 tìshēn yǎnyuán 
④ (drink) 一杯双份的烈酒 yī bēi shuāng fèn de lièjiǔ 
⑤ (sth. consisting of two) 双份物 shuāngfènwù a double 双人间 
⑥ Horse racing 复式下注 fùshì xiàzhù 
⑦ (in bridge) 叫加倍 jiào jiābèi (in darts) 双倍 shuāngbèi (in dominoes, board games) 双点 shuāng diǎn to throw a double (in darts) 投中一个双倍 (in dominoes, board games) 掷了一个双点 
⑧ Sport (two victories) 两次获胜 liǎng cì huòshèng 
G.  doubles noun plural Sport 双打 shuāngdǎ to play doubles 打双打 mixed doubles 混合双打 a doubles player/match 双打运动员/比赛 PHRASAL VERBS double back intransitive verb 
① (return) 沿原路返回 yán yuánlù fǎnhuí 
② (turn sharply) «road, river, queue» 折回 zhéhuí to double back on itself; 折回到原处 double over transitive verb [double somebody/something over] 把…对折 bǎ… duìzhé ‹cloth, paper›; 使…弯腰 shǐ… wānyāo ‹person›I was doubled over with pain 我疼得直不起腰 double up 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (bend over) 弯腰 wānyāo to double up with pain/laughter; 疼/笑得弯下腰 
② (share) 共用一物 gòng yòng yī wù to double up with [somebody]; 和某人共用 to double up on [something]; 共用某物 
B.  transitive verb [double somebody up], [double up somebody] 使…弯腰 shǐ… wānyāo ‹opponent, audience›to be doubled up (in or with pain/laughter); （疼得/笑得）直不起腰 
double 
ˈdəb(ə)l

▶adjective
1 consisting of two equal, identical, or similar parts or things: the double doors. 
• having twice the usual size, quantity, or strength: she sipped a double brandy. 
• designed to be used by two people: a double bed. 
• having two different roles or interpretations, especially in order to deceive or confuse: the double life of a freelance secret agent.
2 having some essential part or feature twice, in particular: 
• (of a flower variety) having more than one circle of petals: large double blooms. 
• (of a domino) having the same number of dots on each half. 
• used to indicate that a letter or number occurs twice in succession: “otter” is spelled with a double t.
3 Music lower in pitch by an octave. 
▶predet. twice as much or as many: the jail now houses almost double the number of prisoners it was designed for 
I'll pay double what I paid last time. 
▶adverb at or to twice the amount or extent: you have to be careful, and this counts double for older people. 
• as two instead of the more usual one: she thought she was seeing double. 
▶noun
1 a thing that is twice as large as usual or is made up of two standard units or things: join the two sleeping bags together to make a double. 
• a double measure of liquor. 
• Baseball a hit that allows the batter to reach second base safely: Sabo came home on a double by O'Neill. 
• a type of bet in which two selections are made, with any winnings from the first being transferred to the second. 
• Bridge a call that will increase the points won if the declarer is successful, or increase the penalty points won by the defenders if the declarer fails to make the contract. 
• Darts a hit on the narrow ring enclosed by the two outer circles of a dartboard, scoring double.
2 a person who looks exactly like another: you could pass yourself off as his double. 
• a person who stands in for an actor in a film. 
• an apparition of a living person: she had seen her husband's double.
3 (doubles) (especially in tennis and badminton) a game or competition involving sides made up of two players: the semifinals of the doubles. 
▶pronoun a number or amount that is twice as large as a contrasting or usual number or amount: he paid double and had a room all to himself. 
▶verb
1 [no object] become twice as much or as many: profits doubled in one year. 
• [with object] make twice as much or as many of (something): Clare doubled her income overnight. 
• [with object] archaic amount to twice as much as: thy fifty yet doth double five and twenty. 
• (of a member of the armed forces) move at twice the usual speed; run: I doubled across the deck to join the others. 
• Baseball (of a batter) get a two-base hit: Strawberry doubled with two outs. 
• Bridge make a call increasing the value of the penalty points to be scored on an opponent's bid if it wins the auction and is not fulfilled. 
• informal US go out on a double date: they doubled with his sister and her oafish boyfriend.
2 [with object] fold or bend (paper, cloth, or other material) over on itself: the muslin is doubled and then laid in a sieve over the bowl. 
• clench (a fist): he had one arm around her and the other fist doubled. 
• Nautical sail around (a headland): we struck out seaward to double the headland of the cape.
3 [no object] (of a person or thing) be used in or play another, different role: a laser printer doubles as a photocopier. 
• [with object] (of an actor) play (two parts) in the same piece. 
• Music play two or more musical instruments. 
• [with object] Music add the same note in a higher or lower octave to (a note). 
PHRASES
on the double at running speed; very fast: he disappeared on the double. double or nothing a gamble to decide whether a loss or debt should be doubled or canceled.PHRASAL VERBS double back go back in the direction one has come: he had to double back to pick them up. double down chiefly US (in blackjack) double a bet after seeing one's initial cards, with the requirement that one additional card be drawn: the amount only increases when you choose to split or double down 
he doubled down on a pair and lost. 
• strengthen one's commitment to a particular strategy or course of action, typically one that is potentially risky: he decided to double down and escalate the war 
the third quarter of the year saw central banks doubling down on the quantitative easing approach. double up
1 bend over or curl up, typically because one is overcome with pain or mirth: Billy started to double up with laughter.
2 share a room: “Where's Jimmy going to sleep?” “He can double up with Bert.”
3 use the winnings from a bet as stake for another bet.DERIVATIVES doubler nounORIGIN Middle English: via Old French from Latin duplus (see duple). The verb is from Old French dobler, from late Latin duplare, from duplus .
