down
1 
BrE daʊn, AmE daʊn 

A.  adverb 
① (from higher to lower) 向下 xiàng xià (downstairs) 向楼下 xiàng lóuxià to read/climb down 往下读/爬 to fall down (from standing) 跌倒 diēdǎo (from height) 掉下 diàoxia to put [something] down 把某物放下 down! (to dog) 趴下！ is he down yet? 他下楼了吗？
3 down (in crossword) 第三竖行 
② (in lower place) 在下面 zài xiàmian a car with the hood down 一辆前车盖合上的车 the second shelf down 下面第二层架子 down below 在底下 zài dǐxia figurative euphemistic 在地狱 zài dìyù 50 metres down 地下50米深处 
③ (facing bottom) 朝下 cháo xià the bread fell with the buttered side down 面包掉落，抹了黄油的一面朝下 to lie face down on [something] 趴在某物上 
④ (below horizon) 在地平线以下 zài dìpíngxiàn yǐxià the sun will soon go down 太阳快要落山了 
⑤ (downstream) 向下游 xiàng xiàyóu to row down towards the sea 顺流而下划向大海 
⑥ (less in amount, price, volume) 减少 jiǎnshǎo sales are down again this quarter 本季度的销售额又下降了 to get the price down to £200 将价格降到200英镑 to get the article down to five pages 把文章缩减到5页 to get one's weight down 减轻体重 she was watching TV with the sound down 她在看电视，音量开得很低 
⑦ (making loss) 产生损失 chǎnshēng sǔnshī they were £200 down on what they'd hoped to make 他们比期望的少赚了200英镑 
⑧ (left with) 仅剩下 jǐn shèngxia to be down to one's last few pounds; 只剩最后几英镑 
⑨ (in bad situation) 处于困境 chǔyú kùnjìng you don't hit or kick a man when he's down 不要落井下石 
⑩ Sport (behind) 落后 luòhòu to be
4 (points) down 落后4分 she's down 15-40 她15比40落后 
⑪ (along, to, at place) 在那一头 zài nà yītóu my office is halfway down 我的办公室在靠走廊中间那里 I saw him down at the shops 我看到他在店铺那边 
⑫ (in south) 在南方 zài nánfāng ; (to south) 向南方 xiàng nánfāng to go down south 南下 
⑬ (away from city) 离开城市 líkāi chéngshì to go down from London 从伦敦过来 to go down to the village 下乡 to live down in the country/on the farm 住在乡下/农场里 
⑭ (from earlier time) 从先到后 cóng xiān dào hòu down through the ages 古往今来 
⑮ (as deposit) 作为定金 zuòwéi dìngjīn to pay £50 down 付50英镑定金 
⑯ (in writing) 以文字 yǐ wénzì to put [something] down (on paper or in writing) 写下某物 it's down here in black and white 白纸黑字写在这里 
⑰ (scheduled) [表示安排]to be down to do [something]; 安排好做某事 you're down to speak next 接下来就该你发言了 you're down for Thursday (for appointment) 你被排在周四 you're down on the list 名单上有你 
⑱ (in range) 以下 yǐxià from age
5 down 5岁以下 from the tenth century down to the present day 从10世纪至今 he described her exactly right down to the colour of her eyes 他对她的描写详细到了她眼睛的颜色 
⑲ (finished) 完成 wánchéng
5 down and
3 to go 完成了5项，还差3项 
⑳ BrE (from university) 从大学结业 cóng dàxué jiéyè [尤指牛津或剑桥大学]㉑ (sick) to be down with the flu/a cold 患流感/感冒病倒 huàn liúgǎn/gǎnmào bìngdǎo ㉒ (attributable) to be or come down to [somebody]/[something]; 由某人/某事物引起 yóu mǒu rén/mǒu shìwù yǐnqǐ her problems come down to the media 她的诸多问题是媒体造成的 it's down to you 你看着办吧 nǐ kànzhe bàn ba ㉓ (away with) 打倒 dǎdǎo down with corruption! 消除腐败！ 
B.  preposition 
① (from higher to lower point) 沿…向下 yán… xiàng xià she came down the stairs 她走下楼梯 he fell down the hole 他跌进洞里 tears ran down his face 泪水顺着他的脸庞流下来 a dress with buttons down the front 正面有竖排纽扣的女装 
② (at lower part of) 在…的下面 zài… de xiàmian farther down the hill 在小山的更低处 the kitchen is down those stairs 厨房在那楼梯下面 
③ (downstream) 向…的下游 xiàng… de xiàyóu to sail down the river 顺河而下航行 
④ (along) 沿着 yánzhe to walk down a street 沿街走过去 halfway down the passage 在过道中间 they live down the road 他们住在路的那头 to look down [something] 用…观看 ‹telescope› 朝…里望去 cháo… li wàngqu ‹tunnel›I looked down the street 我沿街望去 
⑤ (throughout) …以来 … yǐlái down the years/centuries 多年/数百年以来 
⑥ BrE colloquial (at) 在 zài (to) 去 qù he's down the pub 他在酒吧里 she's gone down town 她到市中心去了 
C.  adjective 
① predicative colloquial (depressed) 沮丧的 jǔsàng de to feel a bit down 有点闷闷不乐 
② attributive (going downwards) 向下的 xiàng xià de ‹lift, escalator, arrow›
③ attributive BrE Railways 下行的 xiàxíng de ‹train, line›
④ predicative Computing «network» 停止运行的 tíngzhǐ yùnxíng de the system was down 系统瘫痪了 
D.  transitive verb 
① (with blow, bullet) 打倒 dǎdǎo ‹opponent, prey›he downed him with an uppercut 他用一记上钩拳将他击倒 
② (from air) 击落 jīluò ‹aircraft›
③ colloquial (swallow) 一口气吞下 yīkǒuqì tūnxia he downed his beer 他将啤酒一饮而尽 
E.  noun BrE colloquial to have a down on [somebody]; 厌恶某人 yànwù mǒu rén 
down
1 
doun

▶adverb
1 toward or in a lower place or position, especially to or on the ground or another surface: she looked down 
the sun started to go down 
he put his glass down 
she flicked the switch up and down 
he swung the ax to chop down the tree. 
• at or to a specified distance below: you can plainly see the bottom 35 feet down. 
• downstairs: I went down to put the kettle on. 
• expressing movement or position away from the north: they're living down south. 
• to or at a place perceived as lower (often expressing casualness or lack of hurry): I'd rather be down at the villa 
I'm going down to the arcade. 
• British away from the capital or major city: there are eight trains a day, four up and four down. 
• British away from a university, especially Oxford or Cambridge. 
• (with reference to food or drink swallowed) in or into the stomach: she couldn't keep anything down. 
• so as to lie or be fixed flush or flat: she stuck down a Christmas label. 
• [as exclamation] used as a command to a person or animal to sit or lie down: down, boy! 
• a crossword answer that reads vertically: how many letters in fifteen down?
2 to or at a lower level of intensity, volume, or activity: keep the noise down 
the panic was dying down 
at night it would cool down. 
• to or at a lower price, value, or rank: output was down by
20 percent 
soup is down from 59 cents to 49 cents. 
• to a finer consistency, a smaller amount or size, or a simpler or more basic state: I must slim down a bit 
a formal statement that can't be edited down 
thin down an oil-based paint with spirits. 
• from an earlier to a later point in time or order: everyone, from the president down to the guy selling hot dogs, is outraged.
3 in or into a weaker or worse position, mood, or condition: the scandal brought down the government 
he was down with the flu. 
• losing or at a disadvantage by a specified amount: the Braves, down 7–6, rallied for two runs in the sixth inning. 
• used to express progress through a series of tasks or items: one down and only six more to go. 
• (of a computer system) out of action or unavailable for use (especially temporarily): the system went down yesterday. 
• (down with ——) shouted to express strong dislike of a specified person or thing: crowds chanted “Down with bureaucracy!”
4 in or into writing: I just write down whatever comes into my head 
taking down notes. 
• on or onto a list, schedule, or record: I'll put you down for the evening shift.
5 (with reference to partial payment of a sum of money) made initially or on the spot: pay $500 down and the rest at the end of the month.
6 (of sailing) with the current or the wind. 
• (of a ship's helm) moved around to leeward so that the rudder is to windward and the vessel swings toward the wind.
7 American Football (of the ball or a player in possession) not in play, typically because forward progress has been stopped. 
▶preposition
1 from a higher to a lower point of (something): up and down the stairs 
tears streaming down her face. 
• at or to a lower part of (a river or stream); nearer the sea: a dozen miles or so down the Mississippi. 
• moving or at a point further along the course of (something): he lived down the street 
I wandered down the road. 
• informal at or to (a place): tired of going down to the pub every night.
2 throughout (a period of time): astrologers down the ages. 
▶adjective
1 [attributive] directed or moving toward a lower place or position: the down escalator 
click on the down arrow. 
• Physics denoting a flavor of quark having a charge of −1/3. Protons and neutrons are thought to be composed of combinations of up and down quarks.
2 [predicative] unhappy; depressed: he's been so down lately.
3 [predicative] (of a computer system) temporarily out of action or unavailable: sorry, but the computer's down.
4 [predicative] US informal supporting or going along with someone or something: “You going to the movies?” “Yo, I'm down.” 
she was totally down for a selfie 
you got to be down with me. 
• aware of and following the latest fashion: a seriously down, hip-hop homie. 
▶verb [with object] informal
1 knock or bring to the ground: 175 enemy aircraft had been downed 
he struck Slater on the face, downing him. 
• American Football put (the ball) out of play deliberately by touching one's knee to the ground while holding the ball or touching the ball itself to the ground: Jones downed the ball in the end zone.
2 consume (something, typically a drink): he downed a six-pack. 
• (of a golfer) sink (a putt). 
▶noun
1 American Football a chance for a team to advance the ball, ending when the ball carrier is tackled or the ball becomes out of play. A team must advance at least ten yards in a series of four downs in order to keep possession.
2 (downs) informal unwelcome experiences or events: there had been more downs than ups during his years at the company.
3 informal a feeling or period of unhappiness or depression: everyone gets their downs, their depressive periods. 
• informal short for downer ( sense 1). 
PHRASES
be down on informal disapprove of; feel hostile or antagonistic toward. be down to
1 be attributable to (a particular factor or circumstance): he claimed his problems were down to the media. 
• be the responsibility of (a particular person): it's down to you to make sure the boiler receives regular servicing.
2 be left with only (the specified amount): I'm down to my last few dollars. down cold North American memorized or mastered perfectly: a guy who has his art history down cold. down in the mouth informal (of a person or their expression) unhappy; dejected. down on one's luck informal experiencing a period of bad luck. down to the ground informal completely. have (or put) someone/something down as judge someone or something to be (a particular type): I never had Jake down as a ladies' man.ORIGIN Old English dūn, dūne, shortened from adūne ‘downward,’ from the phrase of dūne ‘off the hill’ (see down3).
