drain 
BrE dreɪn, AmE dreɪn 

A.  noun 
① (sewer) 下水道 xiàshuǐdào (waste water pipe) 下水管 xiàshuǐguǎn (ditch) 排水沟 páishuǐgōu to go down the drain colloquial (be wasted) 被浪费掉 (be ruined) 完蛋 it's just money down the drain 钱白白地扔进水里 my plan for the summer holidays has just gone down the drain 我的暑假计划泡了汤 
② BrE (grating) 下水道格栅 xiàshuǐdào gézhà 
③ (burden, demand) 消耗 xiāohào a drain on [something]; 对某物的耗费 
B.  transitive verb 
① (remove liquid from) 排空…的水 páikōng… de shuǐ ‹land, lake, radiator›
② Culinary 沥干 lìgān ‹vegetables›
③ Medicine 为…引流 wèi… yǐnliú ‹wound›
④ (draw off, remove) 排出 páichū ‹liquid›they've drained all the water from the swimming pool 他们把游泳池的水排光了 
⑤ figurative (sap) 耗尽 hàojìn ‹strength, funds›working a full day at the office drains me completely 在办公室上一整天班让我精疲力竭 to drain a country of its resources 耗尽一个国家的资源 
⑥ (drink up contents of) 喝光 hē guāng 
⑦ Geography «river» 容纳…的来水 róngnà… de láishuǐ the Thames drains the whole of southern Oxfordshire 整个牛津郡南部地区的水流入泰晤士河 
C.  intransitive verb 
① literal (flow away) «liquid» 流走 liúzǒu the blood or colour drained from her face 她脸色变得煞白 the life is draining out of him 他的生命渐渐枯竭 
② (become dry) 沥干 lìgān to leave [something] to drain 让某物滴干水 PHRASAL VERBS drain away intransitive verb 
① (flow away) «liquid» 慢慢流走 mànmàn liúzǒu 
② figurative (fade, diminish) «hope, strength» 逐渐消失 zhújiàn xiāoshī her money drained away 她的钱慢慢花光了 drain off 
A.  intransitive verb «liquid» 流走 liúzǒu 
B.  transitive verb [drain something off], [drain off something] 使…流走 shǐ… liúzǒu ‹liquid›to drain off any excess fat 撇去多余的油脂 
drain 
drān

▶verb [with object]
1 cause the water or other liquid in (something) to run out, leaving it empty, dry, or drier: we drained the swimming pool. 
• cause or allow (liquid) to run off or out of something: fry the pork and drain off any excess fat. 
• make (land) drier by providing channels for water to flow away in: the land was drained and the boggy ground reclaimed. 
• (of a river) carry off the superfluous water from (a district): the stream drains a wide moorland above the waterfall. 
• [no object] (of water or another liquid) flow away from, out of, or into something: the river drains into the Pacific 
figurative : Polly felt the blood drain from her face. 
• [no object] become dry or drier as liquid runs off or away: dishes left to drain 
the plant should be watered well and allowed to drain. 
• (of a person) drink the entire contents of (a glass or other container): he seized the Scotch set before him and drained it. 
• [no object] (of a feeling or emotion) become progressively less strongly felt: gradually the tension and stress drained away.
2 deprive of strength or vitality: his limbs were drained of all energy 
Ruth slumped down in her seat, drained by all that had happened. 
• cause (money, energy, or another valuable resource) to be lost, wasted, or used up: my mother's hospital bills are draining my income. 
• [no object] (of a resource) be lost, wasted, or used up: votes and campaign funds drained away from the Republican candidate.
3 Golf, informal (of a player) hole (a putt). 
▶noun
1 a channel or pipe carrying off surplus liquid, especially rainwater or liquid waste. 
• a tube for drawing off accumulating fluid from a body cavity or an abscess. 
• Electronics the part of a field-effect transistor to which the charge carriers flow after passing the gate.
2 [in singular] a thing that uses up a particular resource: nuclear power is a serious drain on the public purse. 
• the continuous loss or expenditure of a particular resource: the drain of our heritage. 
PHRASES
go down the drain informal be totally wasted: the government must stop public money from going down the drain.ORIGIN Old English drēahnian, drēhnian ‘strain (liquid),’ of Germanic origin; related to dry .
