draw 
BrE drɔː, AmE drɔ 

A.  transitive verb(past tense drew, past participle drawn) 
① (on paper etc.) 画 huà ; figurative (depict) 描绘 miáohuì to draw [somebody] [something], to draw [something] for [somebody]; 为某人画某物 to draw the line (at [something]/doing [something]) （在某事/做某事上）划定底线 the line has to be drawn somewhere 总得有个限度 to draw the line at downright disobedience 完全不听话可不行 a well-drawn character 刻画得很成功的人物 
② (pull) 拉 lā the train was drawn by a steam engine 火车由蒸汽机拉动 to draw one's handkerchief across one's brow 用手帕擦额头 he drew a comb through his wet hair 他用梳子梳理湿发 to draw one's shawl round one's shoulders 披上披肩 to draw the rope through the hole 把绳子穿过孔眼 to draw one's bow (in archery) 拉弓 
③ (attract to place, event) 吸引 xīyǐn (cause liking for) 使喜欢上 shǐ xǐhuan shang to draw [somebody] to do [something]; 吸引某人做某事 to draw [somebody] to/from [something]; 把某人吸引到某处/从某处吸引来 to draw ([somebody's]) attention to [something]/oneself 把（某人的）注意力吸引到某事物上/自己身上 our grief drew us together 我们同病相怜 she felt drawn to this mysterious stranger 她对这个神秘的陌生人有好感 
④ (take out) 掏出 tāochū (pull out) 拔出 báchū ‹nail, thorn›to draw [something] from [something]; 从某处掏出某物 to draw a sword 拔剑 she drew a gun on me 她拔出手枪对准我 to draw [somebody's]/[something]'s teeth or fangs figurative 使某人/某物失去威力 
⑤ Sport, Games 以平局结束 yǐ píngjú jiéshù England drew their game against France 英格兰队与法国队打成平局 
⑥ (in cards) 吊 diào ‹card, trumps›
⑦ Games (choose at random) 抽 chōu ‹card, straw›to draw [something] from [something]; 从某物中抽某物 Italy has been drawn against Spain or to play Spain 抽签结果是意大利队对西班牙队 Smith drew Jones in the first round of the tournament 锦标赛抽签结果是第一轮史密斯与琼斯对阵 
⑧ Finance (receive) 领取 lǐngqǔ ‹salary, pension›(authorize) 开 kāi ‹bill of exchange›the cheque was drawn on their joint account 这张支票开到他们的共同账户上 
⑨ (pump, suck) 抽出 chōuchū ‹water, air›(take from supply) 取用 qǔyòng ‹electricity, money›to draw water from the well 从井中汲水 his friends were drawn from all walks of life 他的朋友来自社会各个阶层 to draw a bath 放洗澡水 
⑩ (disembowel) 除去…的内脏 chúqù… de nèizàng ‹person, chicken›
⑪ (derive) 得到 dédào ‹support, relief, strength›to draw comfort/encouragement/inspiration from [something] 从某事中得到安慰/鼓励/灵感 there is a moral to be drawn from this tale 可以从这个故事中汲取教益 
⑫ (expound) 作出 zuòchū to draw an analogy/a comparison/distinction/parallel between [something] and [something]/with [something] 在某事物与某事物之间/与某事物作类比/对照/区分/比较 
⑬ (produce as response) 引起 yǐnqǐ (cause to talk) 使…开口 shǐ… kāikǒu ‹person›to draw considerable praise 赢得众多称赞 she drew tears of laughter from the audience 她把观众逗得眼泪都笑出来了 she wouldn't be drawn into losing her temper 她不肯发脾气 to draw [somebody] about or on [something]; 使某人透露某事 
⑭ (lead, guide) 带领 dàilǐng 
⑮ Medicine 排出 páichū ‹pus, blood, abscess›
⑯ Nautical 吃水 chīshuǐ the ship draws six metres 这条船吃水6米 
⑰ Technology 拉拔 lābá ‹wire, rod›; 轧制 zházhì ‹plastic, glass, metal›
B.  intransitive verb(past tense drew, past participle drawn) 
① (make picture) 绘画 huìhuà to draw round or around [something]; 比着某物画 
② (move) 移动 yídòng to draw alongside ([something]) （与某物）并行 to draw level (with [something]/[somebody]) （与某物/某人）追平 to draw ahead (of [something]/[somebody]) 超过（某物/某人） we are drawing ahead of our rivals figurative 我们就要领先对手了 to draw to an end or a close 结束 
③ Sport, Games (achieve same score, finish with equal scores) 以平局结束 yǐ píngjú jiéshù (finish at the same time) 同时到达 tóngshí dàodá to draw with or against [somebody]; 与某人打成平局 they drew 4-all or 4-4 in the final 他们在决赛中打成4平 Smith and Jones drew for third place 史密斯和琼斯并列第三名 
④ (take out weapon) 拔出武器 báchū wǔqì to draw on [somebody]; 拔出武器对准某人 
⑤ Sport, Games (make random choice) 抽签 chōuqiān to draw for [something]; 抽签决定某事 
⑥ Technology «pump» 抽水 chōushuǐ ; «vacuum cleaner» 吸尘 xīchén 
⑦ (infuse) «tea» 泡开 pàokāi 
C.  noun 
① Sport, Games (act of drawing lots) 抽签 chōuqiān (lottery, raffle) 抽彩 chōucǎi (sports match) 抽签赛 chōuqiānsài the top half of the draw 抽签赛的上半区 
② Sport, Games (tie) 平局 píngjú the match/game ended in a draw 这场比赛以平局结束 to hold [somebody] to a draw 与某人打成平局 
③ (attraction) (person) 有吸引力的人 yǒu xīyǐnlì de rén (thing, event) 有吸引力的事物 yǒu xīyǐnlì de shìwù 
④ (of gun) 拔枪 bá qiāng to be quick/slow on the draw literal 拔枪快/慢 bá qiāng kuài/màn figurative 反应迅速/迟钝 fǎnyìng xùnsù/chídùn to beat [somebody] to the draw literal 抢在某人前拔枪 qiǎng zài mǒu rén qián bá qiāng figurative 比某人抢先行动 bǐ mǒu rén qiǎngxiān xíngdòng 
⑤ (on cigarette, pipe) 吸烟 xīyān take a long draw on one's pipe/at one's cigarette 深吸一口烟斗/烟 PHRASAL VERBS draw apart intransitive verb 
① (move) 分开 fēnkāi a small group had drawn apart from the rest 一小群人与其他人分开了 
② (become less intimate) 疏远 shūyuǎn the sect began to draw apart from orthodox Judaism 这个教派开始与正统犹太教分道扬镳了 draw aside 
A.  transitive verb [draw something aside, draw aside something] 把…拉到一边 bǎ… lādào yībiān 
B.  intransitive verb 退到一边 tuìdào yībiān draw away 
A.  transitive verb[draw somebody/something away, draw away somebody/something] 
① (remove) 移开 yíkāi 
② (withdraw, distract) 带…离开 dài… líkāi (induce to leave) 吸引…离开 xīyǐn… líkāi they're trying to draw her away from her present job 他们正试图把她从目前的工作挖走 
③ (prevent from doing sth.) 使…分心 shǐ… fēnxīn don't let her draw you away from your work 别让她打扰你工作 
B.  intransitive verb 
① Auto (move off) 驶出 shǐchū 
② (move ahead) 超过 chāoguò he drew away from the rest of the field 他甩开了其他参赛选手 
③ (recoil) 躲避 duǒbì ; figurative (dissociate oneself) 撇清关系 piēqīng guānxì draw back 
A.  transitive verb[draw something back, draw back something] 
① (withdraw) 移开 yíkāi (move away) 拉开 lākāi ‹curtain›her hair was drawn back in a bun 她的头发向后梳成发髻 
② (induce to return) 把…吸引回来 bǎ… xīyǐn huilai 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (recoil) 后退 hòutuì 
② (refrain) 撤回 chèhuí she drew back at the last minute 她在最后一刻罢手了 draw down transitive verb[draw something down, draw down something] 
① (pull down) 拉下 lāxia 
② figurative (attract, invite) 招来 zhāolái she had drawn shame down on her family 她已经使家人蒙羞 
③ Finance 提取 tíqǔ ‹money, loan, funds›draw in 
A.  transitive verb[draw something in, draw in something] 
① (add to picture) 把…画进去 bǎ… huà jinqu 
② (pull in) 缩回 suōhuí the cat drew in its claws 猫把爪子缩了进去 
③ (suck in) 吸入 xīrù 
④ (earn) 挣得 zhèngdé to draw in huge sums of money 赚大钱 
⑤ (attract) 吸引 xīyǐn 
⑥ (involve) 牵涉进 qiānshè jìn I managed to avoid getting drawn into the argument 我设法避免了卷入这场争论 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (arrive) «train» 到站 dàozhàn 
② (get shorter) «days» 渐短 jiàn duǎn ; «evenings, nights» 到来渐早 dàolái jiàn zǎo draw into 
A.  [draw somebody/something into something] transitive verb 
① (involve) 使…卷入… shǐ… juǎnrù… (attract) 把…吸引到… bǎ… xīyǐn dào… neighbouring states were drawn into the battle 邻国被卷入了这场战斗 
② (suck) 把…吸进 bǎ… xījìn ‹water, petrol, air, gas›he was gradually drawn into a life of crime 他逐渐陷入犯罪生涯 
③ (lead, guide) 将…带入… jiāng… dàirù… she drew him into her arms 她把他拉进怀里 
B.  [draw into something] transitive verb 到达 dàodá ‹place›the train drew into the station 火车进站了 draw off 
A.  transitive verb[draw something off, draw off something] 
① (remove) 取下 qǔxià to draw off one's gloves/the cover 摘下手套/取下罩子 
② (extract) 抽出 chōuchū ‹liquid›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (withdraw) 撤退 chètuì 
② (move off) 出发 chūfā draw on 
A.  transitive verb 
① [draw something on, draw on something] (put on) 穿上 chuānshang ‹item of clothing›
② [draw somebody on, draw on somebody] (encourage) 鼓励 gǔlì 
③ [draw on something] (use, exploit) 利用 lìyòng ‹reserves, experience, knowledge›
④ [draw on something] (puff, smoke) 吸 xī ‹cigarette, pipe›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (approach) «time, season» 临近 línjìn night was drawing on 夜幕即将降临 
② (pass) 渐渐过去 jiànjiàn guòqu the months drew on, and there was still no word from her 几个月过去了，她仍然杳无音信 as the evening drew on, he became more talkative 随着夜色渐深，他的话越来越多 draw out 
A.  [draw something out, draw out something] transitive verb 
① (take out) 拿出 náchū 
② (choose randomly) 随意抽取 suíyì chōuqǔ to draw names out of a hat 抽人名签 
③ (pull out) 拔出 báchū ‹nail, splinter of glass›
④ (pump or suck out) 抽出 chōuchū ‹dust, air›
⑤ Finance 提取 tíqǔ ‹money›
⑥ (elicit) 诱出 yòuchū to draw out a confession/secret 引诱招供/套出秘密 
⑦ Technology 拉拔 lābá ‹wire, plastic, glass, metal›
⑧ (cause to last longer) 拖延 tuōyán he drew his meal out 他一顿饭吃得磨磨蹭蹭 
B.  [draw somebody out, draw out somebody] transitive verb 
① (cause or encourage to talk) 鼓励…讲话 gǔlì… jiǎnghuà I managed to draw him out of his silence 我设法使他打破了沉默 
② (induce to come out) 把…吸引出来 bǎ… xīyǐn chūlai fine weather draws people out of their houses 好天气吸引人们出门 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (leave) «train» 出站 chūzhàn (move out) «vehicle» 开出 kāichū the lorry drew out into the middle of the road 卡车斜插到路中央 
② (get longer) «days» 渐长 jiàn cháng ; «evenings, nights» 到来渐晚 dàolái jiàn wǎn draw up 
A.  transitive verb[draw something up, draw up something] 
① (pull upwards) 提起 tíqǐ 
② (devise) 起草 qǐcǎo ‹plan›; 制订 zhìdìng ‹course of action›
③ (bring near) 拉近 lājìn ‹chair, seat›
④ (gather up) 系上 jìshang ‹thread, string›
⑤ (arrange) 排列 páiliè 
⑥ (bring to halt) 使…停下 shǐ… tíngxià 
B.  reflexive verb to draw oneself up; 站得笔直 zhàn de bǐzhí 
C.  intransitive verb 停下 tíngxià draw upon transitive verb = draw on 
draw 
drô

▶verb (past drew 
dro͞o
; past participle drawn 
drôn
) [with object]
1 produce (a picture or diagram) by making lines and marks, especially with a pen or pencil, on paper: he drew a map. 
• produce an image of (someone or something) by making lines and marks: I asked her to draw me 
[no object] : she draws really well. 
• trace or produce (a line or mark) on a surface: she drew a wavering line down the board 
figurative : where will we draw the outer boundaries of this Europe?
2 pull or drag (something such as a vehicle) so as to make it follow behind: a cart drawn by two horses. 
• pull or move (something) in a specified direction: I drew back the blanket and uncovered the body. 
• gently pull or guide (someone) in a specified direction: “David,” she whispered, drawing him aside. 
• [no object] move in a slow steady way: the driver slowed as he drew even with me 
the train drew into the station. 
• [no object] come to or arrive at a point in time or a specified point in a process: the campaign drew to a close 
the time for the parade itself is drawing near. 
• pull (curtains, blinds, or other such coverings) shut or open: do you want me to draw the drapes? 
she drew back the curtains and looked out. 
• make (wire) by pulling a piece of metal through successively smaller holes.
3 extract (an object or liquid) from a container or receptacle: he drew his gun and peered into the gloomy apartment 
the children went down to the pond to draw water 
the syringe drew off most of the fluid 
(as adjective drawn) : he met them with a drawn sword. 
• run (a bath): she drew him a hot bath. 
• (draw something from) obtain something from (a particular source): an independent panel of judges drawn from members of the public 
he draws inspiration from ordinary scenes and simple places. 
• (draw on) use (one's experience, talents, or skills) as a resource: Sue has a lot of past experience to draw on. 
• obtain or withdraw (money) from a bank or other source: this check draws against my personal account. 
• Hunting search (cover) for game. 
• Bridge (of player) force the opponents to play (cards in a particular suit) by leading cards in that suit: before establishing his diamonds, declarer must draw trumps. 
• (draw on) suck smoke from (a cigarette or pipe). 
• [no object] (of a chimney, flue, or fire) allow air to flow in and upward freely, so that a fire can burn: failure of a fire to draw properly can have a number of causes. 
• take in (a breath): Mrs. Feather drew a long breath and let it out. 
• [no object] (of tea) be left standing so that the flavor is extracted from the leaves: a pot of tea is allowed to draw. 
• disembowel: after a mockery of a trial he was hanged, drawn, and quartered.
4 be the cause of (a specified response): he drew criticism for his lavish spending. 
• attract (someone) to come to a place or an event: you really drew the crowds with your playing 
customers drawn in by the reductions. 
• (usually be drawn) induce (someone) to reveal or do something: I would rather not be drawn into your argument. 
• direct or attract (someone's attention) to something: it was an outrage and we had to draw people's attention to it. 
• reach (a conclusion) by deduction or inference from a set of circumstances: the moral to be drawn is that spending wins votes. 
• formulate or perceive (a comparison or distinction): the law drew a clear distinction between innocent and fraudulent misrepresentation.
5 Golf hit (the ball) so that it travels slightly to the left (for a left-handed player, the right), usually as a result of spin given to the ball: he had to learn to draw the ball—not least for the tee shots at Augusta. Compare with fade ( sense
3 of the verb). 
• Billiards impart backspin to (the cue ball), making it move backwards after hitting an object ball.
6 (of a ship) require (a specified depth of water) to float in; have (a certain draft): boats that draw only a few inches of water.
7 [no object] (of a sail) be filled with wind.
8 British finish (a contest or game) with an even score; tie: [with object and complement] : Brazil had drawn a stormy match 1–1. 
▶noun
1 an act of selecting names randomly, typically by extracting them from a bag or other container, to match competitors in a game or tournament: the draw has been made for this year's tournament.
2 a game that ends with the score even; a tie.
3 a person or thing that is very attractive or interesting: the museum has turned out to be a big draw for schoolchildren in the city.
4 an act of inhaling smoke from a cigar: superb cigars offering tons of peppery smoke on each draw.
5 an act of removing a gun from its holster in order to shoot.
6 Golf a shot causing the ball to deviate to the left (or, for a left-handed golfer, the right). 
• Billiards backspin imparted to a cue ball, causing it to move backwards after hitting an object ball. 
PHRASES
draw a bead on see bead. draw a blank see blank. draw blood cause someone to bleed, especially in the course of a fight: the blow drew blood from the corner of his mouth 
figurative : she knew she'd drawn blood when the smile faded from his face. draw fire attract hostile criticism, usually away from a more important target: the vaccination campaign continued to draw fire. draw lots see lot. draw the short straw see straw. quick on the draw very fast in taking one's gun from its holster. 
• very fast in acting or reacting.PHRASAL VERBS draw back choose not to do something that one was expected to do: the government has drawn back from attempting reform. draw something down (or draw down) reduce the size of a military force in an area: more had to be done before the US could begin to draw down its forces in any significant number 
we need to start letting them stand on their own feet, and that isn't going to happen until we start drawing down. 
• withdraw money from a fund or loan facility: I'm not actually going to be drawing down any of the loan until early 1999 
she would have to draw down on her $253,000 investments at a rate of 7.2 per cent. 
• withdraw water, oil, or gas from a reservoir or repository: the state began drawing down some of its stored water. draw on (of a period of time) pass by and approach its end: he remembered sitting in silence with his grandmother as evening drew on. draw something on put an item of clothing on: she drew on her gloves. draw someone out gently or subtly persuade someone to talk or become more expansive: she drew me out and flattered me. draw something out make something last longer: the transition was long drawn out. draw up come to a halt: drivers drew up at the lights. draw something up prepare a plan, proposal, agreement, or other document in detail: they instructed an attorney to draw up a sales agreement. draw oneself up make oneself stand in a stiffly upright manner: Sarah drew herself up, full of indignation that he should presume to judge her.ORIGIN Old English dragan, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch dragen and German tragen, also to draft .
