dress 
BrE drɛs, AmE drɛs 

A.  noun 
① Countable(item of women's clothing) 连衣裙 liányīqún ; before noun 连衣裙的 liányīqún de ‹material, pattern›
② Uncountable(clothing) 衣服 yīfu casual/formal dress 便服/礼服 
③ before noun (for formal occasions) 适于正式场合的 shìyú zhèngshì chǎnghé de ‹suit, uniform›a dress sword 礼服用佩剑 
B.  transitive verb 
① (put clothes on) 给…穿衣服 gěi… chuān yīfu (clothe) 为…提供衣服 wèi… tígōng yīfu to get dressed 穿好衣服 to dress oneself in black 穿黑色衣服 to be well dressed 穿着体面 he was dressed as a woman 他男扮女装 I'm not dressed for a hike 我穿的衣服不适合远足 she dressed her twins in identical outfits 她给她的双胞胎穿一模一样的衣服 to be dressed to kill colloquial 打扮得引人注目 
② (decorate) 装饰 zhuāngshì to dress a shop window 布置橱窗 to be dressed overall Nautical 挂满旗帜 
③ Culinary (prepare) 处理 chǔlǐ ‹poultry, shellfish›; 调制 tiáozhì ‹salad›to dress a chicken 把鸡去毛开膛 
④ Medicine 包扎 bāozā ‹wound›
⑤ (finish) 修整…的表面 xiūzhěng… de biǎomiàn to dress leather 鞣皮 
⑥ Agriculture (fertilize) 给…施肥 gěi… shīféi ‹soil, plant›
C.  intransitive verb 
① (put on clothes) 穿衣服 chuān yīfu I dressed in my best clothes 我穿上了自己最好的衣服 
② (wear particular kind of clothes) 穿衣 chuān yī to dress comfortably 穿得舒适 he dressed as a pirate to go to the fancy dress ball 他装扮成海盗去参加化装舞会 to dress in red/a suit 穿红色衣服/西服 
③ (put on formal clothes) 穿礼服 chuān lǐfú to dress for dinner 穿礼服赴宴 
④ Military 排列整齐 páiliè zhěngqí squad, dress right 全班注意，向右看齐 PHRASAL VERBS dress down 
A.  intransitive verb 穿着随便 chuānzhuó suíbiàn 
B.  transitive verb [dress somebody down], [dress down somebody] colloquial 训斥 xùnchì dress up 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (smartly) 穿上盛装 chuānshang shèngzhuāng don't bother to dress up 用不着穿礼服 
② (in fancy dress) 装扮 zhuāngbàn he dressed up as a policeman 他装扮成警察 she's dressing up in her mother's dress 她把母亲的连衣裙穿着玩 
B.  transitive verb 
① [dress somebody up], [dress up somebody] (in fancy dress) 给…化装打扮 gěi… huàzhuāng dǎban he dressed himself up as a judge 他装扮成法官 
② [dress something up], [dress up something] (improve) 装饰 zhuāngshì ‹clothing, object›; figurative 修饰 xiūshì ‹facts›
dress 
dres

▶verb
1 [no object] put on one's clothes: Graham showered and dressed quickly 
I'll go and get dressed. 
• [with adverbial] wear clothes in a particular way or of a particular type: she's nice-looking and dresses well 
(be dressed) : he was dressed in jeans and a thick sweater. 
• [with object] put clothes on (someone): they dressed her in a white hospital gown. 
• put on clothes appropriate for a formal occasion: we dressed for dinner every night. 
• [with object] design or supply clothes for (a celebrity): for over four decades he dressed the royal family. 
• [with object] decorate (something) in an artistic or attractive way: they had dressed the doorframes with sprays of bittersweet.
2 [with object] treat or prepare (something) in a certain way, in particular: 
• clean, treat, or apply a dressing to (a wound). 
• clean and prepare (food, especially poultry or shellfish) for cooking or eating: (as adjective dressed) : dressed crab. 
• add a dressing to (a salad). 
• apply a fertilizing substance to (a field, garden, or plant). 
• complete the preparation or manufacture of (leather or fabric) by treating its surface in some way. 
• smooth the surface of (stone): (as adjective dressed) : a tower built of dressed stone. 
• arrange or style (one's own or someone else's hair), especially in an elaborate way.
3 [with object] Military draw up (troops) in the proper alignment. 
• [no object] (of troops) come into proper alignment.
4 [with object] prepare (an artificial fly) for use in fishing: (as adjective dressed) : a dressed wet fly. 
▶noun
1 a one-piece garment for a woman or girl that covers the body and extends down over the legs.
2 clothing of a specified kind for men or women: traditional African dress 
figurative : the underlying theme is recognizable even when it appears in feminist dress. 
• [as modifier] denoting military uniform or other clothing used on formal or ceremonial occasions: a dress suit. 
PHRASES
dressed to kill wearing glamorous clothes intended to create a striking impression. dressed to the nines dressed very elaborately.PHRASAL VERBS dress down dress informally: Sue dressed down in old jeans and a white blouse. dress someone down informal reprimand someone. dress ship decorate a ship with flags, for a special occasion. dress up dress in smart or formal clothes. 
• dress in a special costume for fun or as part of an entertainment: he dressed up as a gorilla. dress something up present something in such a way that it appears better than it really is: the company dressed up the figures a little.ORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘put straight’): from Old French dresser ‘arrange, prepare,’ based on Latin directus ‘direct, straight.’
