drift 
BrE drɪft, AmE drɪft 

A.  intransitive verb 
① (be carried by current, wind) «floating object, person» 漂流 piāoliú ; «balloon, cloud, smoke» 飘 piāo 
② (go aimlessly) 顺其自然地发生 shùn qí zìrán de fāshēng I'm content to let things drift 我喜欢顺其自然 he drifted through life/into marriage 他漫无目的地度过了一生/不经意间结了婚 to drift around or about the house 在房子里瞎转悠 her gaze drifted around the room 她漫无目的地扫视一下房间 the audience's attention was drifting 观众的注意力在转移 
③ Nautical, Aviation «boat, aircraft» 偏航 piānháng to drift off course 偏离航线 
④ Sport «ball, stroke, shot» 轻轻滑过 qīngqīng huáguo 
⑤ (pile up) «snow, sand, leaves» 吹积 chuījī drifting snow 堆积的雪 drifting sand 积成堆的沙 
B.  transitive verb 
① (carry or send on current) «tide» 使…漂流 shǐ… piāoliú ‹floating object, raft›a light wind drifted the smoke in our direction 烟随着轻风向我们飘来 the logs are drifted downstream to the mill 原木顺流而下漂到木材加工厂 
② Sport 把…轻轻送到 bǎ… qīngqīng sòngdào ‹ball, shot›
C.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(flow, movement) 流动 liúdòng a drift away from [something] 偏离某事物的变化 a drift back to [something] 向某事物的恢复 the drift of the clouds through the sky 云在天空的飘动 the drift of refugees across the border 越过边界的难民流 
② CountableGeography 缓流 huǎn liú the North Atlantic drift 北大西洋缓流 
③ UncountableNautical, Aviation 偏航 piānháng 
④ Countable(pile, mass) (of snow, leaves, sand) 吹积物 chuījīwù (of smoke, mist) 团 tuán the snow was falling in drifts 雪下得堆积起来 
⑤ Countable(mass of flowers) 大丛的花 dà cóng de huā 
⑥ Countable(gist) 主旨 zhǔzhǐ to get or catch or follow [somebody's] drift 明白某人的意思 PHRASAL VERBS drift apart intransitive verb 逐渐疏远 zhújiàn shūyuǎn drift away: intransitive verb to drift away from [something] 慢慢离开 ‹place, match› figurative 慢慢摆脱 mànmàn bǎituō ‹belief›drift in intransitive verb 闲散地进来 xiánsǎn de jìnlai drift off intransitive verb 
① (doze) 入睡 rùshuì she drifted off (to sleep) 她迷迷糊糊地睡着了 
② (leave) 离开 líkāi drift out intransitive verb 闲散地离开 xiánsǎn de líkāi 
drift 
drift

▶verb [no object]
1 be carried slowly by a current of air or water: the cabin cruiser started to drift downstream 
figurative : excited voices drifted down the hall. 
• [with adverbial of direction] (of a person) walk slowly, aimlessly, or casually: people began to drift away. 
• [with adverbial] move passively, aimlessly, or involuntarily into a certain situation or condition: I was drifting off to sleep 
Lewis and his father drifted apart. 
• (of a person or their attention) digress or stray to another subject: I noticed my audience's attention drifting.
2 (especially of snow or leaves) be blown into heaps by the wind: fallen leaves start to drift in the gutters 
(as adjective drifting) : drifting snow. 
▶noun
1 [in singular] a continuous slow movement from one place to another: there was a drift to the towns. 
• the deviation of a vessel, aircraft, or projectile from its intended or expected course as the result of currents or winds: the pilot had not noticed any appreciable drift. 
• a steady movement or development from one thing toward another, especially one that is perceived as unwelcome: the drift toward a more repressive style of policing. 
• a state of inaction or indecision: after so much drift, any expression of enthusiasm is welcome.
2 [in singular] the general intention or meaning of an argument or someone's remarks: maybe I'm too close to the forest to see the trees, if you catch my drift 
he didn't understand much Greek, but he got her drift.
3 a large mass of snow, leaves, or other material piled up or carried along by the wind. 
• Geology glacial and fluvioglacial deposits left by retreating ice sheets. 
• a large mass of flowering plants growing together: a drift of daffodils.
4 Mining a horizontal or inclined passage following a mineral vein or coal seam. DERIVATIVES drifty adjectiveORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘mass of snow, leaves, etc’): originally from Old Norse drift ‘snowdrift, something driven’; in later use from Middle Dutch drift ‘course, current’; related to drive .
