drill
1 
BrE drɪl, AmE drɪl 

A.  noun 
① Countable(tool) 钻 zuàn (cutting tip) 钻头 zuàntóu hand/power/pneumatic/dentist's drill 手摇钻/电钻/风钻/牙钻 
② UncountableMilitary 训练 xùnliàn 
③ Uncountable and countableSchool 练习 liànxí pronunciation/grammar drills 语音/语法练习 
④ Countable(practice) 演习 yǎnxí fire/lifeboat/air-raid drill 消防/救生艇/空袭演习 
⑤ Uncountablecolloquial dated (correct procedure) 正确步骤 zhèngquè bùzhòu what's the drill for filling in time sheets? 该怎样填写考勤表？ 
⑥ Uncountable(textile) 粗斜纹布 cū xiéwén bù 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (use rotating drill) 钻孔 zuānkǒng to drill for oil; 钻井探油 to drill into [something]; 钻进某物 his eyes drill into me 他眼睛直盯着我 
② Military 训练 xùnliàn 
C.  transitive verb 
① (make hole in) 钻 zuān to drill a hole (in [something]) （在某处）钻孔 
② (riddle with bullets) 用子弹打穿 yòng zǐdàn dǎchuān 
③ (teach by rigorous exercise) 训练 xùnliàn to drill [somebody] in [something] 训练某人某方面的技能 PHRASAL VERB drill down intransitive verb 钻取数据 zuānqǔ shùjù 
drill
1 
dril

▶noun
1 a hand tool, power tool, or machine with a rotating cutting tip or reciprocating hammer or chisel, used for making holes.hand drill 
• a tool used by a dentist for cutting away part of a tooth before filling it.
2 instruction or training in military exercises: parade-ground drill. 
• intensive instruction or training in something, typically by means of repeated exercises: tables can be mastered by drill and practice 
language-learning drills. 
• a rehearsal of the procedure to be followed in an emergency: air-raid drills. 
• (the drill) informal the correct or recognized procedure or way of doing something: he didn't know the drill.
3 a predatory mollusk that bores into the shells of other mollusks in order to feed on the soft tissue. [Family Muricidae, class Gastropoda: several genera and species, in particular the American oyster drill (Urosalpinx cinerea), which is a serious pest of oyster beds.] 
▶verb [with object]
1 produce (a hole) in something by or as if by boring with a drill: drill holes through the tiles for the masonry pins. 
• make a hole in (something) by boring with a drill: a power tool for drilling wood. 
• [no object] make a hole in or through something by using a drill: do not attempt to drill through a joist 
figurative : his eyes drilled into her. 
• [no object] sink a borehole in order to obtain a certain substance, typically oil or water: they are licensed to drill for oil in the area 
(as noun drilling) : drilling should begin next year. 
• (of a dentist) cut away part of (a tooth) before filling it. 
• informal (of a sports player) hit, throw, or kick (a ball or puck) hard and in a straight line: Rose drilled a ball deep to right center.
2 subject (someone) to military training exercises: a sergeant was drilling new recruits. 
• [no object] (of a person) take part in military training exercises: the troops were drilling. 
• instruct (someone) in something by the means of repeated exercises or practice: I reacted instinctively because I had been drilled to do just that. 
• (drill something into) cause (someone) to learn something by repeating it regularly: his mother had drilled into him the need to pay for one's sins. PHRASAL VERBS drill down Computing access data that is in a lower level of a hierarchically structured database: just click on a button and drill down until you find the level of detail you require 
[as modifier] : a drill-down menu of topics.DERIVATIVES driller 
ˈdrilər 
nounORIGIN early 17th century: from Middle Dutch drillen ‘bore, turn in a circle.’
