drop 
BrE drɒp, AmE drɑp 

A.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -pp-) 
① (let fall by accident) 掉下 diàoxia to drop an easy catch 未接住好接的球 don't drop me! 别把我掉了！ to drop the ball AmE figurative 出错 to drop a brick or clanger BrE colloquial 出言不慎 to drop [somebody] in it colloquial 使某人尴尬 
② (let fall on purpose) 放下 fàngxia drop that gun! 把枪放下！ 
③ (lower) 放低 fàngdī (reduce) 降低 jiàngdī she dropped her gaze 她垂下目光 drop your voice a little 小声点 to drop one's trousers colloquial 故意拉低裤子 
④ (deliver) 捎带 shāodài ‹goods›
⑤ (allow to alight) 让…中途下车 ràng… zhōngtú xiàchē 
⑥ (give casually) 随口说出 suíkǒu shuōchū ‹word, remark, advice›; 无意中透露 wúyì zhōng tòulù ‹clue›
⑦ (write) 写 xiě ‹letter, note, card, postcard›to drop [somebody] a line 给某人写封短信 
⑧ (exclude) 略去 lüèqù ‹syllable, word, figure›to drop [somebody] from a team 某人未被列入队员名单 
⑨ colloquial (end contact with) 同…断绝关系 tóng… duànjué guānxì 
⑩ (abandon, give up) 放弃 fàngqì ‹habit, subject›to drop formalities 免去俗套 to drop charges 撤销指控 drop everything! I need your help! 放下所有事情！我需要你帮助！ 
⑪ Sport (lose) 输掉 shū diào ‹point, game›to drop the first set 输掉第一局 
⑫ colloquial (knock or shoot down) 击落 jīluò ‹bird›; 击倒 jīdǎo ‹animal, person›
⑬ Aviation 空投 kōngtóu ‹troops, supplies›
⑭ colloquial (take orally) 吞服 tūn fú ‹drug›
⑮ Zoology «animal» 产 chǎn ‹young›
B.  intransitive verb(present participle etc. -pp-) 
① (be dropped) 落下 luòxià (lower oneself) 低下身子 dīxia shēnzi the climber slipped and dropped to his death 攀登者失足掉下去摔死了 the rock dropped into the water 岩石落到了水里 to drop to the ground/into [somebody's] arms 卧倒在地/倒在某人怀中 to drop into a local accent/a regular routine 带出地方口音/渐渐变成例行公事 
② colloquial (collapse) 累倒 lèidǎo to be/feel/look ready to drop; 就要/感到要/看上去要累倒 to work/dance/practise until or till one drops 工作/跳舞/练到累垮为止 to drop open (in surprise or sleep) «mouth, jaw» 张开 
③ (move lower) «gaze» 垂下 chuíxia to drop open (in surprise or amazement) «mouth, jaw» （惊讶地）张开 
④ (stretch down) «garment, curtain, skirt» 下垂 xiàchuí 
⑤ Geography (fall away) 陡降 dǒujiàng 
⑥ (move down scale) 下降 xiàjiàng interest rates have dropped to a five-year low 利率已降到5年来的最低水平 
⑦ (come to end) «subject» 结束 jiéshù to let a matter/one's studies drop 搁置一件事/荒废学业 you used to be so good at tennis: it's a pity you let it drop 你以前网球打得那么好──不练了真可惜 
C.  noun 
① (small globule of liquid) 滴 dī (small quantity) 少量 shǎoliàng drops of sweat 汗滴 drop by drop 一滴滴地 not a drop 一点儿没有 a drop in the ocean BrE, a drop in the bucket AmE 沧海一粟 just a drop (of [something]) 就一点儿（某物） not a bad drop of wine/whisky 很好的葡萄酒/威士忌 have a drop too much colloquial 喝醉 he doesn't touch a drop during the week colloquial 他从星期一到星期五滴酒不沾 
② (decrease) 下降 xiàjiàng a drop of 5% 5%的下降幅度 a drop in temperature/interest rates/consumer spending 气温/利率/消费性开支的下降 
③ (jewel, ornament) 坠子 zhuìzi 
④ (sweet, candy) 硬糖 yìngtáng cough drops 止咳糖 
⑤ (vertical distance) 垂直距离 chuízhí jùlí ; (vertical slope or surface) 陡坡 dǒupō a sheer drop (of 200 m) to the rocks below 距下面岩石（200米）的垂直落差 
⑥ Aviation (act of dropping people, supplies) 空投 kōngtóu (people dropped) 空投人员 kōngtóu rényuán (things dropped) 空投物资 kōngtóu wùzī (act of descending by parachute) 空降 kōngjiàng 
⑦ colloquial (delivery by vehicle) 送货 sònghuò we've got three more drops to make 我们还得送3次货 
⑧ (place to leave sth.) 藏匿处 cángnìchù ; (act of leaving sth.) 藏匿 cángnì 
⑨ colloquial (advantage) to have/get the drop on [somebody]; 占某人的上风 zhàn mǒu rén de shàngfēng 
D.  drops noun plural Medicine 滴剂 dījì PHRASAL VERBS drop away intransitive verb 
① (diminish) «attendance, numbers, interest» 逐渐减少 zhújiàn jiǎnshǎo 
② (fall steeply) «land, shore, cliff» 陡降 dǒujiàng drop back intransitive verb 落后 luòhòu drop back: you're too close to the car in front 开慢点儿，你离前面的汽车太近了 drop behind intransitive verb 落后 luòhòu drop by intransitive verb colloquial 顺便访问 shùnbiàn fǎngwèn Jim dropped by this afternoon 吉姆今天下午来串门了 drop down 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (be dropped, become lower) 掉下 diàoxia 
② (lower oneself) 低下身子 dīxia shēnzi 
B.  transitive verb[drop something down, drop down something] 把…丢下来 bǎ… diū xialai drop in 
A.  transitive verb[drop something in, drop in something] 
① (let drop) 扔进 rēngjìn I poured myself a cup of tea and dropped in a couple of sugar lumps 我给自己倒了杯茶，并放进几块方糖 
② colloquial (deliver) 递送 dìsòng 
B.  intransitive verb colloquial 顺便来访 shùnbiàn láifǎng drop off 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (decrease) 逐渐减少 zhújiàn jiǎnshǎo to show signs of dropping off 呈现出下滑的迹象 
② (fall asleep) 睡着 shuìzháo 
B.  transitive verb 
① [drop off something] (fall off) 从…掉下 cóng… diàoxia the blossom began to drop off the tree 树上的花开始凋落 
② [drop something off, drop off something] (deliver) 捎带 shāodài 
③ [drop somebody off] (set down, allow to alight) 让…下车 ràng… xiàchē drop out intransitive verb 
① (fall out) 掉出 diàochū the key must have dropped out of my pocket 钥匙肯定从我口袋里掉出来了 
② (withdraw) 退出 tuìchū School, University 退学 tuìxué Sociology 逃避现实 táobì xiànshí to drop out (of school); 退学 tuìxué he dropped out of politics 他退出了政坛 he dropped out of society 他脱离了传统社会 
③ (disappear) 消失 xiāoshī the coins will gradually drop out of circulation 这些硬币将逐渐退出流通 
④ (straighten out) «crease(s)» 抻平 chēnpíng drop over intransitive verbcolloquial = drop round drop round intransitive verb colloquial 顺便访问 shùnbiàn fǎngwèn (do) drop round some time 有空来坐坐 
drop 
dräp

▶verb (drops, dropping, dropped) [with object]
1 let or make (something) fall vertically: the fire was caused by someone dropping a lighted cigarette 
they dropped bombs on London during the raid. 
• deliver (supplies or troops) by parachute: the airlift dropped food into the camp. 
• Rugby score (a goal) by a drop kick. 
• (of an animal, especially a mare, cow, or ewe) give birth to (young). 
• informal take (a drug, especially LSD) orally: he dropped a lot of acid in the Sixties.
2 [no object] fall vertically: the spoon dropped with a clatter from her hand. 
• (of a person) allow oneself to fall; let oneself down without jumping: they escaped by climbing out of the window and dropping to the ground. 
• (of a person or animal) sink to or toward the ground: he dropped to his knees in the mud. 
• informal collapse or die from exhaustion: he looked ready to drop. 
• (of ground) slope steeply down: the cliff drops ninety yards to the valley below.
3 make or become lower, weaker, or less: he dropped his voice as she came into the room 
[no object] : pretax profits dropped by 37 percent 
tourism has dropped off in the last few years.
4 abandon or discontinue (a course of action or study): the charges against him were dropped last year 
drop everything and get over here! 
• discard or exclude (someone or something): they were dropped from the team in the reshuffle. 
• informal stop associating with: I was under pressure from family and friends to drop Barbara. 
• omit (a letter or syllable) in speech: our English au pair drops her h's.
5 set down or unload (a passenger or goods), especially on the way to somewhere else: he dropped the load off at a dealer's 
his mom dropped him outside and drove off to work. 
• put or leave in a particular place without ceremony or formality: just drop it in the mail when you've got time. 
• mention in passing, typically in order to impress: she dropped a remark about having been included in the selection.
6 (in sports) fail to win (a point, game, or match). 
• informal lose (money), especially through gambling: they drifted into a roulette parlor and dropped about fifteen dollars.
7 Bridge force or be forced to play (a relatively high card) as a loser under an opponent's higher card, because it is the only card in its suit held in the hand: West dropped the nine 
[no object] : the queen dropped. 
▶noun
1 a small round or pear-shaped portion of liquid that hangs or falls or adheres to a surface: the first drops of rain splashed on the ground. 
• [often with negative] a very small amount of liquid: there was not a drop of water in sight. 
• [usually with negative] a drink of alcoholic liquor: he doesn't touch a drop during the week. 
• (drops) liquid medicine to be measured or applied in very small amounts: eye drops.
2 [usually in singular] an instance of falling or dropping: they left within five minutes of the drop of the curtain. 
• an act of dropping supplies or troops by parachute: the planes finally managed to make the drop. 
• a fall in amount, quality, or rate: a significant drop in consumer spending. 
• an abrupt fall or slope: standing on the lip of a sixty-foot drop. 
• (the drop) Bridge the playing of a high card underneath an opponent's higher card, because it is the only card in its suit held in the hand.
3 informal a delivery: I got to the depot and made the drop. 
• US a mailbox. 
• a hiding place for stolen, illicit, or secret things: the lavatory's toilet tank could be used as a letter drop.
4 [usually with modifier] a piece of candy or a lozenge: a lemon drop.
5 (also drop earring) an earring that hangs down from the earlobe: silver drop earrings 
simple amethyst and diamond drops.
6 a section of theatrical scenery lowered from the flies; a drop cloth or drop curtain.
7 a trapdoor on a gallows, the opening of which causes the prisoner to fall and thus be hanged. 
• (the drop) execution by hanging. 
PHRASES
at the drop of a hat informal without delay or good reason: he used to be very bashful, blushing at the drop of a hat. drop the ball North American informal make a mistake; mishandle things: I really dropped the ball on this one. [with allusion to mishandling in baseball.] drop dead die suddenly and unexpectedly: she had seen her father drop dead of a heart attack. 
• [in imperative] informal used as an expression of intense scorn or dislike. drop a (or the) dime on informal inform on (someone) to the police. drop like flies see fly2. drop one's guard abandon one's habitual defensive or protective stance. drop a hint (or drop hints) let fall a hint or hints, as if casually or unconsciously: he was dropping hints that in the future he would be taking a back seat in politics.a drop in the bucket (or British ocean) a very small amount compared with what is needed or expected: the $550 million is likely to be a drop in the bucket.drop someone a line send someone a note or letter in a casual manner: drop me a line at the usual address. drop names see name-dropping. drop one's serve (in tennis) lose a game in which one is serving. drop a stitch let a stitch fall off the end of a knitting needle. drop one's trousers deliberately let one's trousers fall down, especially in a public place. have the drop on informal have the advantage over: if your enemy gets the drop on you he can kill you. a drop too much informal enough alcohol to make one drunk: you drive, because he has taken a drop too much.PHRASAL VERBS drop back/behind fall back or get left behind: the colt was struggling to stay with the pace and started to drop back. drop by/in call informally and briefly as a visitor: they would unexpectedly drop in on us. drop into
1 call casually and informally at (a place): he'd actually considered dropping into one of the pickup bars.
2 pass quickly and easily into (a habitual state or manner): she couldn't help dropping into a Brooklyn accent. drop off fall asleep easily, especially without intending to: struggle as she might, she kept dropping off. drop out
1 cease to participate in a race or competition.
2 abandon a course of study: kids who had dropped out of college.
3 reject conventional society to pursue an alternative lifestyle: a child of the sixties who had temporarily dropped out.
4 Rugby restart play with a drop kick. 
• score a drop goal.DERIVATIVES droppable adjectiveORIGIN Old English dropa (noun), droppian (verb), of Germanic origin; related to German Tropfen ‘a drop,’ tropfen ‘to drip,’ also to drip and droop .
