drunk 
BrE drʌŋk, AmE drəŋk 
A. past participle → drink A., 
C. , 
B.  
B.  adjective 
① literal (inebriated) 醉的 zuì de to get drunk 喝醉 dead or blind drunk 烂醉如泥的 to be drunk and disorderly Law 酒后闹事 as drunk as a lord BrE humorous colloquial 酩酊大醉的 
② figurative 陶醉的 táozuì de to be drunk with [something]; 对某事物如痴如醉 
C.  noun (habitual) 酒鬼 jiǔguǐ ; (on a particular occasion) 醉汉 zuìhàn 
drunk 
▶adjective he was so drunk he couldn't stand up: intoxicated, inebriated, inebriate, impaired, drunken, tipsy, under the influence; crapulous; informal plastered, smashed, bombed, sloshed, sozzled, sauced, lubricated, well oiled, wrecked, juiced, blasted, stinko, blitzed, baked, half-cut, fried, wasted, hopped up, gassed, polluted, pissed, tanked (up), soaked, out of one's head/skull, loaded, trashed, hammered, soused, buzzed, befuddled, besotted, pickled, pixilated, canned, cockeyed, blotto, blind drunk, roaring drunk, dead drunk, punch-drunk, ripped, stewed, tight, merry, the worse for wear, far gone, pie-eyed, in one's cups, three sheets to the wind; British informal bladdered, lashed. ANTONYMS sober.
▶noun a brilliant artist, he was also a tortured drunk: drunkard, inebriate, drinker, tippler, imbiber, sot; heavy drinker, binge drinker, problem drinker, alcoholic, dipsomaniac; informal boozer, soak, lush, wino, alky, rummy, barfly; archaic toper. ANTONYMS teetotaler.CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD drunk, blotto, drunken, inebriated, intoxicated, tight, tipsy Anyone who is obviously or legally under the influence of alcohol is said to be drunk. Drunken means the same thing, but only drunk should be used predicatively, that is, after a linking verb (she was drunk) while drunken is more often used to modify a noun (a drunken sailor) and, in some cases, to imply habitual drinking to excess. Drunken is also used to modify nouns that do not refer to a person (a drunken celebration). To say intoxicated or inebriated is a more formal and less offensive way of calling someone drunk, with intoxicated implying that the individual is only slightly drunk, and inebriated implying drunkenness to the point of excitement or exhilaration (the streets were filled with inebriated revelers). Tight and tipsy are two of the slang expressions (there are literally hundreds more) meaning drunk. Like intoxicated, tipsy implies that someone is only slightly drunk, while tight implies obvious drunkenness but without the loss of muscular coordination. An elderly woman who has had one sherry too many might be described as tipsy, but someone who has been drinking all evening and is still able to stand up and give a speech might be described as tight. Either condition is preferable to being blotto, a slang term that means drunk to the point of incomprehensibility or unconsciousness.These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.REFLECTIONS See crapulous Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
