dry 
BrE drʌɪ, AmE draɪ 
A. adjective 
① (not liquid, wet or moist) 干的 gān de ‹ink, paint›(not rainy) 干燥的 gānzào de ‹weather, place›(empty of water) 干涸的 gānhé de ‹river, well›store in a cool, dry place 在凉爽干燥处储存 dry bread 不涂黄油的面包 on dry land 在陆地 to keep ([something]) dry （使某物）保持干燥 to wipe [something] dry 把某物擦干 (as) dry as a bone 干透的 there wasn't a dry eye in the house 全场无人不掉泪 a dry heat is much less tiring 干热不会那么让人感到疲累 to boil dry «kettle, food» 烧干 to run dry «river, well» 干涸 gānhé figurative «funds, supplies» 耗尽 hàojìn 
② Physiology 干性的 gānxìng de ‹skin, hair›a dry cough 干咳 
③ (thirsty, thirst-making) 口渴的 kǒukě de to be/feel dry 口渴/感到口渴 dry work 令人口干舌燥的工作 
④ (without alcohol) 禁酒的 jìnjiǔ de ‹day, event, area›the wedding was dry — lemonade and fruit juice only 婚礼上没有酒，只有柠檬水和果汁 parts of the country are dry on Sundays 本国的一些地方星期天禁酒 
⑤ (not sweet) 干的 gān de a glass of dry white wine 一杯干白葡萄酒 
⑥ (subtle, ironical) 不形于色的 bù xíng yú sè de ‹remark, humour›; (unemotional) 冷淡的 lěngdàn de ‹voice, person, remark›to make dry asides 一本正经地插科打诨 
⑦ (dull) 枯燥的 kūzào de ‹subject, lecture›the dry facts of the matter 有关此事的干巴巴的事实 (as) dry as dust 非常乏味的 
⑧ BrE Politics 保守党政客的 Bǎoshǒudǎng zhèngkè de 
B.  transitive verb(3rd person singular present dries; past tense, past participle dried) 弄干 nònggān to dry one's eyes 擦干眼泪 sun-dried tomatoes 晒干的西红柿 
C.  reflexive verb(3rd person singular present dries; past tense, past participle dried) to dry oneself; 擦干身子 cāgān shēnzi 
D.  intransitive verb(3rd person singular present dries; past tense, past participle dried) 
① (become dry) 变干 biàngān 
② Theatre slang «actor, speaker» 忘词 wàng cí 
E.  noun(plural dries or drys) 
① (act of drying sth.) 弄干 nònggān would you give those dishes a dry, please? 请你把那些碟子擦干好吗？ 
② BrE Politics 保守党政客 Bǎoshǒudǎng zhèngkè PHRASAL VERBS dry off A. transitive verb [ dry somebody/something off, dry off somebody/something] 把…擦干 bǎ… cāgān 
B.  reflexive verb to dry oneself off; 把自己擦干 bǎ zìjǐ cāgān 
C.  intransitive verb 变干 biàngān dry out A. transitive verb 
① [dry something out, dry out something] (make dry) 使干透 shǐ gāntòu sunbathing will dry out your skin 日光浴会把你的皮肤晒得干燥 
② [dry somebody out, dry out somebody] (cure of alcoholism) 使戒酒 shǐ jièjiǔ 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (become dry) 干透 gāntòu 
② (undergo cure for alcoholism) 戒酒 jièjiǔ dry up A. intransitive verb 
① literal (become dry) «river» 干涸 gānhé 
② figurative (run out) 耗尽 hàojìn 
③ BrE (dry dishes) 擦干餐具 cāgān cānjù 
④ colloquial (be unable to speak) 说不出话 shuōbuchū huà ; BrE colloquial (stop speaking) 住口 zhùkǒu oh, dry up, will you! 噢，你就不能住嘴！ 
B.  transitive verb[dry something up, dry up something] 
① (empty) «sun, heat, drought» 使…变干 shǐ… biàngān ‹water, puddles, river›
② BrE (wipe dry) 擦干 cāgān ‹dishes›
dry 
▶adjective
1 the dry desert: arid, parched, droughty, scorched, baked; waterless, moistureless, rainless; dehydrated, desiccated, thirsty, bone dry. ANTONYMS wet.
2 dry leaves: parched, dried, withered, shriveled, wilted, wizened; crisp, crispy, brittle; dehydrated, desiccated. ANTONYMS fresh.
3 the rolls were dry: hard, stale, old, past its best. ANTONYMS moist, fresh.
4 a dry well: waterless, empty.
5 I'm really dry: thirsty, dehydrated; informal parched, gasping.
6 it was dry work: thirsty, thirst-making; hot; strenuous, arduous.
7 dry toast: unbuttered, butterless, plain.
8 the dry facts: bare, simple, basic, fundamental, stark, bald, hard, straightforward. ANTONYMS embellished.
9 a dry debate: dull, uninteresting, boring, unexciting, tedious, tiresome, wearisome, dreary, monotonous; unimaginative, sterile, flat, bland, lackluster, uninvolving, stodgy, prosaic, humdrum, mundane; informal deadly. ANTONYMS lively, interesting.
10 a dry sense of humor: wry, subtle, laconic, sharp; ironic, sardonic, sarcastic, cynical; satirical, mocking, droll; informal waggish.
11 a dry response to his cordial advance: unemotional, indifferent, impassive, cool, cold, emotionless; reserved, restrained, impersonal, formal, stiff, wooden. ANTONYMS emotional, expressive.
12 this is a dry state: teetotal, prohibitionist, alcohol-free, nondrinking, abstinent, sober; informal on the wagon.
13 dry white wine: crisp, sharp, piquant, tart, bitter. ANTONYMS sweet.
▶verb
1 the sun dried the ground: parch, scorch, bake; dehydrate, desiccate, dehumidify. ANTONYMS moisten.
2 dry the leaves completely: dehydrate, desiccate; wither, shrivel. ANTONYMS moisten.
3 he dried the spills with a paper towel: towel, rub; mop up, blot up, soak up, absorb.
4 she dried her eyes: wipe, rub, dab.
5 methods of drying meat: desiccate, dehydrate; preserve, cure, smoke.
PHRASES
dry out she dried out on her thirtieth birthday and has been sober ever since: give up drinking, give up alcohol, become a teetotaler, go on the wagon. dry up foreign investment may dry up: dwindle, subside, peter out, wane, taper off, ebb, come to a halt/end, run out, give out, disappear, vanish. CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD dry, arid, dehydrated, dessicated, parched, sere Almost anything lacking in moisture (in relative terms)—whether it's a piece of bread, the basement of a house, or the state of Arizona—may be described as dry, a word that also connotes a lack of life or spirit (a dry lecture on cell division). Arid, on the other hand, applies to places or things that have been deprived of moisture and are therefore extremely or abnormally dry (one side of the island was arid); it is most commonly used to describe a desertlike region or climate that is lifeless or barren. Desiccated is used as a technical term for something from which moisture has been removed, and in general use it suggests lifelessness, although it is applied very often to people who have lost their vitality (a desiccated old woman who never left her house) or to animal and vegetable products that have been completely deprived of their vital juices (desiccated oranges hanging limply from the tree). Dehydrated is very close in meaning to desiccated and is often the preferred adjective when describing foods from which the moisture has been intentionally extracted (they lived on dehydrated fruit). Dehydrated may also refer to an unwanted loss of moisture (the virus had left him seriously dehydrated), as may the less formal term parched, which refers to an undesirable or uncomfortable lack of water in either a person or a place (parched with thirst; the parched landscape). Sere is associated primarily with places and means much the same as arid (a harsh, sere land where few inhabitants could survive).These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
