duck 
BrE dʌk, AmE dək 

A.  noun 
① Countable(plural ducks or duck) Zoology 鸭 yā wild/domesticated duck 野鸭/家鸭 ducks and drakes 母鸭和公鸭 to take to [something] like a duck to water 像鸭子入水般习惯某事 to be like water off a duck's back «remark» 被当作耳旁风 
② UncountableCulinary 鸭肉 yā ròu 
③ CountableSport (in cricket) 零分 língfēn to be out for a duck 得零分出局 to make a duck 得零分 to break one's duck literal 首次得分 figurative 首次成功 shǒucì chénggōng 
④ Countable(act of ducking) 低头 dītóu 
B.  intransitive verb 低下头 dīxia tóu to duck (down) behind [something]; 弓身躲在某物后面 to duck into [something]; 低头钻进某处 
C.  transitive verb 
① (lower) 低下 dīxia ‹head›
② (dodge) 躲避 duǒbì ‹blow, missile›; figurative colloquial (avoid) 回避 huíbì ‹issue›; 逃避 táobì ‹duty›
③ (push underwater) 把…按入水中 bǎ… ànrù shuǐ zhōng ‹person, head›PHRASAL VERB duck out intransitive verb colloquial to duck out of doing [something]; 逃避做某事 táobì zuò mǒu shì to duck out of seeing [somebody] 躲着不见某人 duǒzhe bù jiàn mǒu rén 
duck
1 
dək

▶noun (plural same or ducks)
1 a waterbird with a broad blunt bill, short legs, webbed feet, and a waddling gait. [Family Anatidae (the duck family); domesticated ducks are mainly descended from the mallard. The duck family also includes geese and swans, from which ducks are distinguished by their generally smaller size and shorter necks.] 
• a duck as food: a duck for tomorrow's dinner.
2 a pure white thin-shelled bivalve mollusk found off the Atlantic coasts of America. [Genus Anatina, family Mactridae.]
3 (also duck boat) an amphibious transport vehicle. [ respelling of DUKW .] 
PHRASES
get (or have) one's ducks in a row North American informal get (or have) one's facts straight; get (or have) everything organized. take to something like a duck to water take to something very readily: he shows every sign of taking to University politics like a duck to water. water off a duck's back a potentially hurtful or harmful remark or incident that has no apparent effect on the person mentioned: it was like water off a duck's back to Nick, but I'm sure it upset Paul.ORIGIN Old English duce, from the Germanic base of duck2 (expressing the notion of ‘diving bird’).
