due 
BrE djuː, AmE d(j)u 

A.  adjective 
① predicative (payable) 到期的 dàoqī de to be/fall due; «rent, instalment, payment» 到期 
② predicative (owed, entitled) 应有的 yīngyǒu de to be due (for) [something]; 应得到 ‹money, promotion›to be due to [somebody]/[something]; «money, thanks» 应给予 ‹person, company›to be due [somebody]; 归属某人 I'm still due
10 days' leave 我还应有10天的假期 the debts due to the company 公司的应收债款 
③ usually attributive (appropriate) 适当的 shìdàng de ‹reflection, praise, attention›to pay due consideration or regard to [something] 适当考虑某事物 with all due respect 恕我冒昧 with all due regard or respect to [somebody]/[something] 充分考虑某人/某事物 in due course 在适当的时候 he was charged with driving without due care and attention 他被控鲁莽驾驶 
④ predicative (scheduled, expected) 预期应到的 yùqī yīng dào de to be due; «event» 预期发生 «train, traveller» 预期到达 yùqī dàodá to be due to do [something]; 预定做某事 to be due out; Transport 预定出发 «book» 预定出版 yùdìng chūbǎn to be due back; «person, transport» 预定返回 when's the baby due? 宝宝什么时候出生？ my essay's due next Wednesday 我的文章下周三必须交 the project is due for completion in 2010 该项目预计2010年完工 
B.  due to predicative (caused by, because of) 因为 yīnwèi due to the fact that …; 由于…的事实 to be due to [somebody]; 多亏某人 due to bad weather/a fall in demand/unforeseen circumstances 由于恶劣天气/需求减少/不可预见的情况 
C.  adverb 正对着 zhèng duìzhe due north/south/east/west 正北/正南/正东/正西 
D.  nounfigurative (what is owed to sb.) 应得的东西 yīngdé de dōngxi to give [somebody] his/her due 给某人说句公道话 he always tries to give folk their due 他总是尽量待人公平 
E.  dues noun plural 应缴款 yīngjiǎokuǎn to pay one's dues literal 交纳会费 jiāonà huìfèi figurative (fulfil obligation) 尽责任 jìn zérèn (experience difficulties) 经历苦难 jīnglì kǔnàn this drummer has paid his dues with the best 这个鼓手经历的苦难不比任何人少 
due 
▶adjective
1 their fees were due: owing, owed, payable; outstanding, overdue, unpaid, unsettled, undischarged, delinquent.
2 the chancellor's statement is due today: expected, anticipated, scheduled for, awaited; required.
3 the respect due to a great artist: deserved by, merited by, warranted by; appropriate to, fit for, fitting for, right for, proper to.
4 he drove without due care: proper, correct, rightful, suitable, appropriate, apt; adequate, sufficient, enough, satisfactory, requisite.
▶noun
1 he attracts more criticism than is his due: rightful treatment, fair treatment, just punishment; right, entitlement; just deserts; informal comeuppance.
2 members have paid their dues: fee, subscription, charge; payment, contribution.
▶adverb he hiked due north: directly, straight, exactly, precisely, dead.
PHRASES
due to
1 her death was due to an infection: attributable to, caused by, ascribed to, because of, put down to.
2 the train was canceled due to staff shortages: because of, owing to, on account of, as a consequence of, as a result of, thanks to, in view of; formal by reason of. 
USAGE
due to The use of due to as a prepositional phrase meaning ‘because of’ (as in he had to retire due to an injury) first appeared in print in 1897, and traditional grammarians have opposed this prepositional usage for more than a century on the grounds that it is a misuse of the adjectival phrase due to in the sense of ‘attributable to, likely or expected to’ (the train is due to arrive at 11:15), or ‘payable or owed to’ (render unto Caesar what is due to Caesar). Nevertheless, this prepositional usage is now widespread and common in all types of literature and must be regarded as standard English. The phrase due to the fact that is very common in speech, but it is wordy, and, especially in writing, one should use instead the simple word because .Usage notes show additional guidance on finer points of English usage.
