dull 
BrE dʌl, AmE dəl 

A.  adjective 
① (not bright) 暗淡的 àndàn de ‹colour, shade›a dull blue 暗蓝色 
② (overcast) 阴沉的 yīnchén de ‹weather, sky, day›
③ (muffled) 闷声的 mēn shēng de ‹thud, boom›
④ (uninteresting) 乏味的 fáwèi de ‹lecture, holiday›; (lacking vivaciousness) 沉闷的 chénmèn de ‹man, lecturer›(as) dull as ditchwater or dishwater 非常单调乏味的 
⑤ (blunt) 钝的 dùn de ‹blade, edge, knife›
⑥ (slow-witted) 愚钝的 yúdùn de 
⑦ (not intense) 隐隐的 yǐnyǐn de ‹ache, pain, throbbing›
⑧ (vacant) 呆滞的 dāizhì de ‹look, stare›
B.  transitive verb 
① (make matt) 使…变暗淡 shǐ… biàn àndàn ‹lustre, brightness, finish›
② (muffle) 使…变低沉 shǐ… biàn dīchén ‹sound›to dull [somebody's] hearing 使某人听力减退 
③ (make slow, sluggish) 使…迟钝 shǐ… chídùn ‹wits, senses›
④ (blunt) 使…变钝 shǐ… biàndùn ‹blade, sharpness›to dull the edge of [somebody's] appetite 使某人没有胃口 
⑤ (diminish) 减轻 jiǎnqīng ‹suffering, pain›; 减少 jiǎnshǎo ‹delight, pleasure›
C.  intransitive verb 
① (become matt) «lustre» 变暗淡 biàn àndàn the manufacturers claim that the colour should not dull for a long time 厂商声称颜色可以保持很久 
② (become sluggish, slow) «wits, senses» 变迟钝 biàn chídùn 
③ (grow blunt) «blade, edge» 变钝 biàndùn 
④ (lose intensity) «pain, anguish» 减轻 jiǎnqīng ; «delight, pleasure» 减少 jiǎnshǎo 
dull 
dəl

▶adjective
1 lacking interest or excitement: your diet doesn't have to be dull and boring. 
• archaic (of a person) feeling bored and dispirited: she said she wouldn't be dull and lonely.
2 lacking brightness, vividness, or sheen: his face glowed in the dull lamplight 
his black hair looked dull. 
• (of the weather) overcast; gloomy: next morning dawned dull. 
• (of sound) not clear; muffled: a dull thud of hooves. 
• (of pain) indistinctly felt; not acute: there was a dull pain in his lower jaw. 
• (of an edge or blade) blunt: a lot more people are cut with dull knives than with sharp ones.
3 (of a person) slow to understand; stupid: the voice of a teacher talking to a rather dull child. 
• archaic (of a person's senses) not perceiving things distinctly; insensitive. 
• (of activity) sluggish, slow-moving: gold closed lower in dull trading. 
▶verb make or become dull or less intense: [with object] : time dulls the memory 
[no object] : Albert's eyes dulled a little. 
PHRASES
(as) dull as dishwater extremely dull.dull the edge of cause to be less keenly felt; reduce the intensity or effectiveness of: she'd have to find something to dull the edges of the pain.DERIVATIVES dullish 
ˈdəliSH 
adjective. dully 
ˈdəlˌlē 
adverbORIGIN Old English dol ‘stupid,’ of Germanic origin; related to Dutch dol ‘crazy’ and German toll ‘mad, fantastic, wonderful.’
