ear 
BrE ɪə, AmE ɪr 
noun 
① CountableAnatomy, Zoology 耳朵 ěrduo inner/middle/outer ear 内耳/中耳/外耳 an ear infection 耳部感染 wet behind the ears colloquial pejorative 乳臭未干的 my ears are burning 有人在议论我呢 to be all ears colloquial 专心倾听 to bend [somebody's] ear (about [something]) colloquial 向某人反复说（某事） to be out on one's ear colloquial (from job) 被迫离开工作岗位 (from home) 被赶出家门 to be up to one's ears in debt/work colloquial 负债累累/埋头工作 to have a word in [somebody's] ear 和某人私下谈 to go in one ear and out the other 左耳进，右耳出 to have or keep one's ear to the ground 关注动向 to keep one's ears open (for [something]) (be quick to hear) 留意倾听（某事） (find out about) 关注（某事） to lend or give a sympathetic ear 同情地倾听 to listen with half an ear 心不在焉地听 → deaf 
A. 
② 
② Uncountable(hearing, perception) 听觉 tīngjué pleasant to the ear 悦耳的 to the trained/untrained ear 对于训练有素/缺乏训练的耳朵 to play music by ear 不看乐谱演奏乐曲 to play it by ear figurative colloquial 随机应变 to have an ear for music 有音乐鉴赏力 to have a good ear for accents 善于辨别口音 
③ Countable(of grain) 穗 suì 
ear
1 
ir

▶noun the organ of hearing and balance in humans and other vertebrates, especially the external part of this. 
• an organ sensitive to sound in other animals. 
• [in singular] an ability to recognize, appreciate, and reproduce sounds, especially music or language: an ear for melody. 
• used to refer to a person's willingness to listen and pay attention to something: she offers a sympathetic ear to worried pet owners. 
• an ear-shaped thing, especially the handle of a jug. The ear of a mammal is composed of three parts. The outer or external ear consists of a fleshy external flap and a tube leading to the eardrum or tympanum. The middle ear is an air-filled cavity connected to the throat, containing three small linked bones that transmit vibrations from the eardrum to the inner ear. The inner ear is a complex fluid-filled labyrinth including the spiral cochlea (where vibrations are converted to nerve impulses) and the three semicircular canals (forming the organ of balance). The ears of other vertebrates are broadly similar. 
PHRASES
be all ears informal be listening eagerly and attentively. bring something (down) about one's ears bring something, especially misfortune, on oneself: she brought her world crashing about her ears. one's ears are burning one is subconsciously aware of being talked about or criticized. grin (or smile) from ear to ear smile broadly. have something coming out of one's ears informal have a substantial or excessive amount of something: that man's got money coming out of his ears. have someone's ear have access to and influence with someone: he claimed to have the prime minister's ear. have (or keep) an ear to the ground be well informed about events and trends. in one ear and out the other heard but disregarded or quickly forgotten: whatever he tells me seems to go in one ear and out the other. listen with half an ear not give one's full attention. be out on one's ear informal be dismissed or ejected ignominiously. reach someone's ears be heard or heard about by someone: the sound of running feet reached my ears 
one of those stories reached our ears. up to one's ears in informal very busy with or deeply involved in: I'm up to my ears in work here.DERIVATIVES eared 
ird 
adjective [in combination] : long-eared. earless 
ˈirləs 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English ēare, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch oor and German Ohr, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin auris and Greek ous .
