early 
BrE ˈəːli, AmE ˈərli 

A.  adjective 
① (before usual time) 提早的 tízǎo de ‹arrival, retirement, holiday›the early death of his mother 他母亲的早逝 daffodils are early this year 今年黄水仙开得早 
② (in period of time) 早的 zǎo de in the early hours (of the morning) 在清晨 the early bus 早班公交车 in the early morning/evening/spring/summer etc. 在清晨/傍晚/早春/初夏等 
③ (near beginning) 初期的 chūqī de (in) early January/the early thirties （在）1月/30年代初 in early pregnancy 在妊娠早期 it's early days (yet) BrE 为时尚早 
④ attributive (in life) 早期的 zǎoqī de in early childhood 在幼年 at an early age 在早年 in one's early twenties 在20岁出头 the author's early novels 该作家的早期小说 
⑤ attributive (happening soon) 不久的 bùjiǔ de at an early date 早日 at the earliest 最早 at the earliest possible opportunity 一有机会 
⑥ attributive Agriculture 早熟的 zǎoshú de ‹crop, vegetable, variety›
B.  adverb 
① (before expected time) 提早 tízǎo the strawberries ripened early this year 草莓今年成熟得早 to do [something] three weeks early 提前3个星期做某事 
② (in period of time) 早地 zǎo de as early as possible 尽早 early next year 下一年年初 early on 早先 five minutes/three years earlier 5分钟/3年以前 as I said earlier, … 正如我先前所讲的，… as early as 1736 早在1736年 
③ (near beginning of event, process) 初期 chūqī early in the war/match 在战争/比赛初期 early in the book/meeting 在书/会议的开头 
④ (in life) 早期 zǎoqī early (on) in life 在早年 early (on) in one's career 在职业生涯之初 
⑤ (referring to future) 早于 zǎo yú not earlier than
10 o'clock/Monday/next week 不早于10点钟/星期一/下周 I can't get there earlier than five 我5点钟以前赶不到那里 
early 
ˈərlē

▶adjective (earlier, earliest)
1 happening or done before the usual or expected time: we ate an early lunch. 
• (of a plant or crop) flowering or ripening before other varieties: early potatoes.
2 happening, belonging to, or done near the beginning of a particular time or period: an early goal secured victory. 
• done or occurring near the beginning of the day: we agreed to meet at
6 a.m. to get an early start. 
• denoting or belonging to the beginning or opening stages of a historical period, cultural movement, or sphere of activity: early Impressionism. 
• occurring at the beginning of a sequence: the earlier chapters of the book. 
▶adverb
1 before the usual or expected time: I was planning to finish work early today.
2 near the beginning of a particular time or period: we lost a couple of games early in the season. 
• near the beginning of the day: I wrote this piece early one morning. 
• (earlier) before the present time or before the time one is referring to: you met my husband earlier. 
PHRASES
at the earliest not before the time or date specified: the table won't be delivered until next week at the earliest. early bird humorous a person who rises, arrives, or acts before the usual or expected time. an early grave a premature or untimely death: he worked himself into an early grave. the early hours the time after midnight and before dawn. an early night an occasion when someone goes to bed before the usual time. early (or earlier) on at an early (or earlier) stage in a particular time or period: they discovered early on that the published data were wrong.DERIVATIVES earliness 
ˈərlēnəs 
nounORIGIN Old English (as an adverb) ǣrlīce (see ere, -ly2), influenced by Old Norse árliga. The adjective use dates from Middle English.
