early 
BrE ˈəːli, AmE ˈərli 
A. adjective 
① (before usual time) 提早的 tízǎo de ‹arrival, retirement, holiday›the early death of his mother 他母亲的早逝 daffodils are early this year 今年黄水仙开得早 
② (in period of time) 早的 zǎo de in the early hours (of the morning) 在清晨 the early bus 早班公交车 in the early morning/evening/spring/summer etc. 在清晨/傍晚/早春/初夏等 
③ (near beginning) 初期的 chūqī de (in) early January/the early thirties （在）1月/30年代初 in early pregnancy 在妊娠早期 it's early days (yet) BrE 为时尚早 
④ attributive (in life) 早期的 zǎoqī de in early childhood 在幼年 at an early age 在早年 in one's early twenties 在20岁出头 the author's early novels 该作家的早期小说 
⑤ attributive (happening soon) 不久的 bùjiǔ de at an early date 早日 at the earliest 最早 at the earliest possible opportunity 一有机会 
⑥ attributive Agriculture 早熟的 zǎoshú de ‹crop, vegetable, variety›
B.  adverb 
① (before expected time) 提早 tízǎo the strawberries ripened early this year 草莓今年成熟得早 to do [something] three weeks early 提前3个星期做某事 
② (in period of time) 早地 zǎo de as early as possible 尽早 early next year 下一年年初 early on 早先 five minutes/three years earlier 5分钟/3年以前 as I said earlier, … 正如我先前所讲的，… as early as 1736 早在1736年 
③ (near beginning of event, process) 初期 chūqī early in the war/match 在战争/比赛初期 early in the book/meeting 在书/会议的开头 
④ (in life) 早期 zǎoqī early (on) in life 在早年 early (on) in one's career 在职业生涯之初 
⑤ (referring to future) 早于 zǎo yú not earlier than
10 o'clock/Monday/next week 不早于10点钟/星期一/下周 I can't get there earlier than five 我5点钟以前赶不到那里 
early 
▶adjective
1 early copies of the book: advance, forward; initial, preliminary, first; pilot, trial. ANTONYMS late.
2 an early death: untimely, premature, unseasonable, before time.
3 early man: primitive, ancient, prehistoric, primeval; literary of yore. ANTONYMS modern.
4 an early official statement: prompt, timely, quick, speedy, rapid, fast. ANTONYMS overdue.
▶adverb
1 Rachel has to get up early: in the early morning; at dawn, at daybreak, at first light. ANTONYMS late.
2 they hoped to leave school early: before the usual time; prematurely, too soon, ahead of time, ahead of schedule; literary betimes.
