earth 
BrE əːθ, AmE ərθ 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countableespecially Astronomy ( also Earth) (planet) 地球 dìqiú the earth's crust/surface/core 地壳/地表/地核 to the ends of the earth 到天涯海角 how/what/why on earth …? colloquial 究竟如何/是什么/为什么…？ to cost the earth BrE colloquial 极其昂贵 → face 
A. 
⑦ 
② Uncountable(human world) 人世 rénshì heaven/hell on earth 人间天堂/地狱 to feel/taste etc. like nothing on earth colloquial 感觉/吃起来等糟透了 
③ Uncountable(ground) 陆地 lùdì to come back or down to earth colloquial 回到现实 
④ Uncountable(soil) 泥土 nítǔ 
⑤ Countable and uncountable(lair, esp of fox) 兽穴 shòu xué to go to earth figurative 躲藏起来 to run [somebody]/[something] to earth figurative 终于追寻到某人/某物 
⑥ Countable BrE Electricity 地线 dìxiàn 
B.  transitive verb BrE 使…接地 shǐ… jiēdì ‹appliance, plug›PHRASAL VERB earth up transitive verb [earth up something, earth something up] 用土掩盖 yòng tǔ yǎngài to earth up the roots 给根部壅土 
earth 
ərTH

▶noun
1 (also Earth) the planet on which we live; the world: the diversity of life on earth. 
• the surface of the world as distinct from the sky or the sea: it plummeted back to earth at 60 mph. 
• the present abode of humankind, as distinct from heaven or hell. The earth is the third planet from the sun in the solar system, orbiting between Venus and Mars at an average distance of 90 million miles (149.6 million km) from the sun, and has one natural satellite, the moon. It has an equatorial diameter of 7,654 miles (12,756 km), an average density 5.5 times that of water, and is believed to have formed about 4,600 million years ago. The earth, which is three-quarters covered by oceans and has a dense atmosphere of nitrogen and oxygen, is the only planet known to support life.
2 the substance of the land surface; soil: a layer of earth. 
• one of the four elements in ancient and medieval philosophy and in astrology (considered essential to certain signs of the zodiac). 
• a stable, dense, nonvolatile inorganic substance found in the ground. 
• literary the substance of the human body.
3 the underground lair or habitation of a badger or fox.
4 British term for ground1 ( sense
7 of the noun). 
▶verb [with object]
1 (earth something up) cover the root and lower stem of a plant with heaped-up earth.
2 Hunting drive (a fox) to its underground lair. 
• [no object] (of a fox) run to its underground lair.
3 British term for ground1 ( sense
5 of the verb). 
PHRASES
come (or bring) back (down) to earth return or cause to return to reality after a period of daydreaming or excitement. the earth moved (or did the earth move for you?) humorous one had (or did you have?) an orgasm.go to earth (of a hunted animal) hide in an underground burrow. 
• go into hiding: he'd gone to earth after that meeting. like nothing on earth informal very strange: they looked like nothing on earth. on earth used for emphasis: who on earth would venture out in weather like this?ORIGIN Old English eorthe, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch aarde and German Erde .
