east 
BrE iːst, AmE ist 

A.  nounUncountable
① (direction) 东 dōng (position or location) 东方 dōngfāng (eastern part) 东部 dōngbù 
② Politics, Geography the East 东方诸国 dōngfāng zhū guó out East; 在遥远的东方 zài yáoyuǎn de dōngfāng 
③ History (eastern Europe) the East 东欧 Dōng Ōu 
④ Geography (eastern USA) the East 美国东部地区 Měiguó dōngbù dìqū 
⑤ Geography (eastern Britain) the East 英国东部地区 Yīngguó dōngbù dìqū 
⑥ History the East (East Berlin) 东柏林 (East Germany) 东德 Dōng Dé 
⑦ Games 处在东首位置的一方玩家 chǔzài dōngshǒu wèizhì de yīfāng wánjiā 
B.  adjective 
① (eastern) 东边的 dōngbian de on the east side of the island 在岛屿的东侧 
② attributive (from the east) 来自东边的 láizì dōngbian de an east wind 东风 
C.  adverb 
① (to the east, on the eastern side) 在东边 zài dōngbian east of [something]; 在某物的东边 
② (towards the east) 向东 xiàng dōng due east 向正东 
east 
ēst

▶noun (usually the east)
1 the direction toward the point of the horizon where the sun rises at the equinoxes, on the right-hand side of a person facing north, or the point on the horizon itself: a gale was blowing from the east 
the Atlantic Ocean is to the east of Florida. 
• the compass point corresponding to this.
2 the eastern part of the world or of a specified country, region, or town: a factory in the east of the city. 
• (usually the East) the regions or countries lying to the east of Europe, especially China, Japan, and India: the protection of trade routes to the East. 
• (usually the East) the eastern part of the US from the Alleghenies on the west and north of the Mason–Dixon line: Pittsburgh beat up on the bottom three teams in the East. 
• (usually the East) short for East Coast. 
• (usually the East) historical the former communist states of eastern Europe.
3 (East) [as name] Bridge the player sitting to the left of North and partnering West. 
▶adjective [attributive]
1 lying toward, near, or facing the east: the hospital's east wing. 
• (of a wind) blowing from the east. 
• situated in the part of a church containing the altar or high altar, usually the actual east.
2 (often East) of or denoting the eastern part of a specified area, city, or country or its inhabitants: East Texas 
East African. 
▶adverb to or toward the east: traveling east, he met two men 
the river rises east of the city. ORIGIN Old English ēast-, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch oost and German ost, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin aurora,Greek auōs ‘dawn.’
