easy 
BrE ˈiːzi, AmE ˈizi 

A.  adjective 
① (not difficult) 容易的 róngyì de ‹job›; 简单的 jiǎndān de ‹problem›; 轻松的 qīngsōng de ‹journey›an easy climb 不费力的攀爬 it's an easy car to drive 那辆车容易开 as easy as pie or ABC or anything colloquial 极其容易 to be easy on the eye/ear colloquial 看起来/听上去不费力 
② (comfortable) 舒适的 shūshì de ‹life, atmosphere›to make life or things or it too easy for [somebody] 让某人过于舒服 to have an easy ride colloquial 一路顺风 to live in easy circumstances 过宽裕的生活 
③ (relaxed) 自在的 zìzài de ‹smile›to have an easy manner 举止洒脱 to write in a relaxed, easy style 以平易流畅的风格写作 to feel easy (in one's mind) about [something] 对某事物放心 
④ (vulnerable) 易受伤害的 yì shòu shānghài de ‹victim›; 易受攻击的 yì shòu gōngjī de ‹target›he's easy game or meat 他容易上当 
⑤ colloquial pejorative (promiscuous) 水性杨花的 shuǐxìng yánghuā de she's easy 她很容易到手 
⑥ AmE (lenient) 宽容的 kuānróng de ‹teacher›; 宽松的 kuānsōng de ‹standard›dad was too easy on him 爸爸对他太纵容 
⑦ predicative colloquial (having no preference) 随和的 suíhe de shall we go? — I'm easy 我们走吗？──随便 
⑧ easier predicative, only in comparative form (less intense) 程度轻的 chéngdù qīng de to make the pain easier 减轻疼痛 is the pain any easier? 疼得轻点了吗？ 
B.  adverb 
① colloquial (in relaxed way) 从容地 cóngróng de to take it or things easy 从容不迫 take it easy! 别着急！ easy come, easy go 来得容易去得快 
② colloquial (carefully) 小心地 xiǎoxīn de easy does it! 轻点儿！ to go easy on or with [something] 轻手轻脚摆弄某物 
③ colloquial (leniently) 宽容地 kuānróng de to go easy on or with [somebody] 宽容地对待某人 
④ (without difficulty) 容易地 róngyì de easier said than done 说时容易做时难 
⑤ Military 放松地 fàngsōng de stand easy! 稍息！ 
easy 
ˈēzē

▶adjective (easier, easiest)
1 achieved without great effort; presenting few difficulties: an easy way of retrieving information. 
• [attributive] (of an object of attack or criticism) having no defense; vulnerable: he was vulnerable and an easy target. 
• informal, derogatory (of a woman) open to sexual advances; sexually available: her reputation at school for being easy.
2 (of a period of time or way of life) free from worries or problems: promises of an easy life in the New World. 
• (of a person) lacking anxiety or awkwardness; relaxed: his easy and agreeable manner 
they didn't feel easy about what they were doing. 
▶adverb archaic or US informal without difficulty or effort: we all scared real easy in those days. 
▶exclam. be careful: easy, girl—you'll knock me over! 
PHRASES
be easier said than done be more easily talked about than put into practice. (as) easy as pie see pie1. easy come, easy go used to indicate that a relationship or possession acquired without effort may be abandoned or lost casually and without regret. easy does it used especially in spoken English to advise someone to approach a task carefully and slowly. easy on the eye (or ear) informal pleasant to look at (or listen to).go (or be) easy on someone informal refrain from being harsh with or critical of someone. go easy on something informal be sparing or cautious in one's use or consumption of something: go easy on fatty foods. have it easy informal be free from difficulties; be fortunate. I'm easy informal said by someone when offered a choice to indicate that they have no particular preference. of easy virtue dated (of a woman) sexually promiscuous. rest (or sleep) easy be untroubled by (or go to sleep without) worries: this insurance policy will let you rest easy. take the easy way out extricate oneself from a difficult situation by choosing the simplest or most expedient course rather than the most honorable or ethical one. take it easy proceed calmly and in a relaxed manner. 
• make little effort; rest.DERIVATIVES easiness 
ˈēzinis 
nounORIGIN Middle English (also in the sense ‘comfortable, quiet, tranquil’): from Old French aisie, past participle of aisier ‘put at ease, facilitate’ (see ease) .
