echo 
BrE ˈɛkəʊ, AmE ˈɛkoʊ 

A.  noun(plural echoes) 
① Uncountable and countable(of sound, reverberation) 回声 huíshēng to cheer to the echo 大声欢呼 
② Countablefigurative (overtone) 暗示 ànshì this book has many echoes of her previous one 这本书和她的前一本书有多处相似 
③ Countablefigurative (of idea, opinion etc.) 附和 fùhè his love for her found an echo in her own feelings 他对她的爱在她的情感中引起共鸣 
B.  transitive verb 
① (reflect) 使回响 shǐ huíxiǎng the walls of the cave echoed their shouts 他们的喊声在洞壁里回响 the hills seemed to echo their joy 群山似乎也感染了他们的喜悦 
② figurative (repeat) 重复 chóngfù ‹words, opinions›; 附和 fùhè ‹attitudes›
③ figurative (resemble) 与…相似 yǔ… xiāngsì his style echoes 
T. 
S.  Eliot 他的风格像
T.  
S.  艾略特 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (reflect back) «sound» 回响 huíxiǎng her shouts echoed through the valley 她的喊声在山谷中回荡 
② (resound) «valley, hall, walls» 产生回声 chǎnshēng huíshēng the house echoed to/with their music 房子里回荡着他们的音乐 
③ figurative (reappear) «idea, theme» 被重复 bèi chóngfù 
echo 
ˈekō

▶noun (plural echoes)
1 a sound or series of sounds caused by the reflection of sound waves from a surface back to the listener: the walls threw back the echoes of his footsteps. 
• a reflected radio or radar beam. 
• the deliberate introduction of reverberation into a sound recording. 
• Linguistics the repetition in structure and content of one speaker's utterance by another.
2 a close parallel or repetition of an idea, feeling, style, or event: his love for her found an echo in her own feelings. 
• (often echoes) a detail or characteristic that is suggestive of something else: the cheese has a sharp rich aftertaste with echoes of salty, earthy pastures.
3 archaic a person who slavishly repeats the words or opinions of another.
4 Bridge a play by a defender of a higher card in a suit followed by a lower one in a subsequent trick, used as a signal to request a further lead of that suit by their partner.
5 a code word representing the letter E, used in radio communication. 
▶verb (echoes, echoing, echoed) [no object]
1 (of a sound) be repeated or reverberate after the original sound has stopped: their footsteps echoed on the metal catwalks. 
• (of a place) resound with or reflect back a sound or sounds: the house echoed with shouts and thundering feet. 
• [with object] repeat (someone's words or opinions), typically to express agreement: these criticisms are echoed in a number of other studies 
[with direct speech] : “A trip?” she echoed.
2 [with object] (of an object, movement, or event) be reminiscent of or have shared characteristics with: a blue suit that echoed the color of her eyes.
3 [with object] Computing send a copy of (an input signal or character) back to its source or to a screen for display: for security reasons, the password will not be echoed to the screen.
4 Bridge (of a defender) play a higher card followed by a lower one in the same suit, as a signal to request one's partner to lead that suit. DERIVATIVES echoer noun. echoey 
ˈekō-ē 
adjective. echoless 
ˈekōləs 
adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: from Old French or Latin, from Greek ēkhō, related to ēkhē ‘a sound.’
