effect 
BrE ɪˈfɛkt, AmE əˈfɛkt 

A.  noun 
① Countable and uncountable(result) 结果 jiéguǒ the effects of medicine 药效 the beneficial effects of exercise 锻炼的益处 the effect of alcohol on the liver 酒精对肝脏的影响 to have a damaging effect on [somebody]/[something] 对某人/某事物起破坏作用 
② Uncountable(efficacy) 效力 xiàolì of little/no effect 效力甚微/无效 they took precautions, to no effect 他们采取了预防措施，但无济于事 to take effect «law» 生效 «medicine» 见效 jiànxiào to come into effect «law» 开始生效 to put [something] into effect 实行 shíxíng ‹policy›to put a new system into effect 实施新体制 with effect from … formal 从…起生效 
③ Countable and uncountable(impression) 效果 xiàoguǒ to give/create the effect of [something] 产生某种效果 the effect on [somebody]; 给某人的印象 for effect 为了加深印象 a marbled effect 大理石效果 an effect of light 灯光效果 
④ Countable(basic meaning) 大意 dàyì to this/that effect 有这/有那个意思 … or words to that effect …或者类似的话 
⑤ Countable(in scientific use) 效应 xiàoyìng the placebo effect 安慰剂效果 
B.  effects noun plural 
① Cinema, Radio, Television special effects 特技效果 tèjì xiàoguǒ 
② Law personal effects 个人财产 gèrén cáichǎn 
C.  in effect adverb phrase 
① (effectively) 实质上 shízhì shang 
② (in use) 在实施中 zài shíshī zhōng the regulations are not yet in effect 这些规定还没有实行 
D.  transitive verb formal 实行 shíxíng ‹reform›; 实施 shíshī ‹rescue›; 引起 yǐnqǐ ‹change›to effect a cure 治愈 to effect a settlement of a dispute 解决争端 
effect 
əˈfekt

▶noun
1 a change that is a result or consequence of an action or other cause: the lethal effects of hard drugs 
politicians really do have some effect on the lives of ordinary people. 
• the state of being or becoming operative. 
• the extent to which something succeeds or is operative: wind power can be used to great effect. 
• [with modifier] Physics a physical phenomenon, typically named after its discoverer: the Doppler effect. 
• an impression produced in the mind of a person: gentle music can have a soothing effect.
2 (effects) the lighting, sound, or scenery used in a play, movie, or broadcast: the production relied too much on spectacular effects.
3 (effects) personal belongings: the insurance covers personal effects. 
▶verb [with object] cause (something) to happen; bring about: nature always effected a cure 
budget cuts that were quietly effected over four years. 
PHRASES
come into effect become operative; start to apply: similar legislation came into effect in Wales on the same date 
the Kyoto Protocol officially came into effect last week. for effect in order to impress people: I suspect he's controversial for effect. in effect in operation; in force: a moratorium in effect since 1985 has been lifted. 
• used to convey that something is the case in practice even if it is not formally acknowledged to be so: additional payments that are in effect an entrance tax. put (or bring or carry) something into effect cause something to apply or become operative: they succeeded in putting their strategies into effect. take effect become operative; start to apply: the ban is to take effect in six months. to the effect that used to refer to the general sense of something written or spoken: some comments to the effect that my essay was a little light on analysis. to that effect having that result, purpose, or meaning: she thought it a foolish rule and put a notice to that effect in a newspaper.ORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French, or from Latin effectus, from efficere ‘accomplish,’ from ex- ‘out, thoroughly’ + facere ‘do, make.’ Sense
3 of the noun,‘personal belongings,’ arose from the obsolete sense ‘something acquired on completion of an action.’ usage: For the differences in use between effect and affect, see usage at affect1 .
