either 
BrE ˈʌɪðə, ˈiːðə, AmE ˈiðər, ˈaɪðər 

A.  adjectiveattributive 
① (one or the other) 两者之中任一的 liǎngzhě zhī zhōng rèn yī de take either road 两条路随便走哪一条 either way, we can't win 无论如何我们都赢不了 
② (neither) 都没有 dōu méiyǒu [用于否定句，不用作主语]there's no train on either day 两天都没有火车 
③ (both) 两者的 liǎngzhě de trees growing on either side of the road 长在道路两侧的树 either end of the corridor 走廊两头 either outcome is possible 两种结果都有可能 
B.  pronounplus singular verb 
① (one or other) 两者中的任何一个 liǎngzhě zhōng de rènhé yī gè I might marry either (of them) 我可能和他们两人的其中一个结婚 which book do you want? — either 你想要哪一本书？──随便 
② (neither) [用于否定句，不用作主语，表示两者都不]I don't like either of them 两个我都不喜欢 
③ (both) 两者 liǎngzhě either of us could win 我们俩都可能赢 
C.  conjunction [引导短语或句子，不常作主语；或用于否定句，不用作主语]either … or …; 或者…或者… either by cheating or by lying 要么通过欺骗，要么通过撒谎 you either love him or hate him 你不是爱他就是恨他 put the gun down — it's either that or I'll call the police 把枪放下──不然我就报警 
D.  adverb 
① (also) 也 yě [用于否定句句末]I can't sleep — I can't, either 我睡不着──我也睡不着 there's no answer to that question either 那个问题也没有答案 
② (moreover) 而且 érqiě not only was it expensive, but it didn't work either 它不仅贵而且不管用 
either 
ˈēT͟Hər ˈīT͟Hər

▶conjunction & adverb
1 used before the first of two (or occasionally more) alternatives that are being specified (the other being introduced by “or”): either I'll accompany you to your room, or I'll wait here 
available in either black or white.
2 [adverb, with negative] used to indicate a similarity or link with a statement just made: you don't like him, do you? I don't, either 
it won't do any harm, but won't really help, either. 
• for that matter; moreover (used to add information): I was too tired to go. And I couldn't have paid my way, either. 
▶det. & pronoun one or the other of two people or things: [as determiner] : there were no children of either marriage 
[as pronoun] : they have a mortgage that will be repaid if either of them dies. 
• [determiner] each of two: the road was straight with fields of grass on either side. 
PHRASES
either way whichever of two given alternatives is the case: I'm not sure whether he is trying to be clever or controversial, but either way, such writing smacks of racism.ORIGIN Old English ǣgther, contracted form of ǣg(e)hwæther, of Germanic origin; ultimately related to aye1 and whether . usage: In good English writing style, it is important that either and or are correctly placed so that the structures following each word balance and mirror each other. Thus, it is correct to say either I'll accompany you, or I'll wait here. The two expressed choices are parallel, as each includes the subject and its verb phrase: I'll accompany you; I'll wait here. It would be incorrect to say either I'll accompany you or John because the first choice includes the subject and its verb phrase, but the second choice is just an object: I'll accompany you; John. A corrected version could be I'll accompany either you or John (now the choices are parallel, as each is just the object: you; John). See also usage at neither .
