empty 
BrE ˈɛm(p)ti, AmE ˈɛm(p)ti 

A.  adjective 
① (lacking contents) 空的 kōng de ‹container, vehicle, shelf›; 空白的 kòngbái de ‹page›; 未放物品的 wèi fàng wùpǐn de ‹table›; 空着的 kōngzhe de ‹hand(s)›to be empty of [something] 没有某物 
② (lacking people) 无人的 wúrén de ‹room, building, street›; 未载人的 wèi zàirén de ‹vehicle, plane, boat›; 空缺的 kòngquē de ‹post›; 无人做的 wúrén zuò de ‹job›to stand empty «house, office» 空无一人 
③ (lacking food) 饿的 è de on an empty stomach 空着肚子 
④ (insincere, meaningless) 空洞的 kōngdòng de ‹words, argument, promises›; 虚张声势的 xū zhāng shēngshì de ‹threats›; 不现实的 bù xiànshí de ‹dreams›empty of meaning 没有意义 
⑤ (purposeless) 空虚的 kōngxū de ‹life›; 空闲的 kòngxián de ‹hours, days, weeks›
⑥ predicative (exhausted) 疲乏的 pífá de to feel empty 感觉疲乏 
B.  transitive verb 
① (remove contents) 清空 qīngkōng ‹container, pool, cupboard›; 掏空 tāokōng ‹envelope, purse, pocket›; 腾空 téngkōng ‹vehicle, ship›
② (pour) 倒空 dàokōng to empty [something] into/on to [something]; 把…全部倒进某物里/倒在某物上 ‹contents, water, rubbish›
③ (clear) 将…清场 jiāng… qīngchǎng ‹building, cinema, shop, street, bus›
C.  intransitive verb 
① (discharge contents) «container, tank, bin» 腾空 téngkōng 
② (pour out) 倒空 dàokōng to empty into/on to [something]; «contents, sand, rubbish» 全部倒入某物/倒在某物上 
③ (flow) 流入 liúrù to empty into [something]; «river, stream, water» 流入某处 
④ (be vacated) «building, theatre, shop, street, bus» 被清场 bèi qīngchǎng 
D.  empties noun plural BrE colloquial (bottles) 空瓶 kōngpíng (glasses) 空杯 kōngbēi PHRASAL VERB empty out 
A.  transitive verb [empty out something, empty something out] (pour out) 倒空 dàokōng (clear) 清空 qīngkōng to empty water out of one's boots; 把水从靴子里倒出来 to empty one's pockets out on to the table; 把衣袋里的东西全掏到桌子上 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (leave a place) «people» 全部撤离 quánbù chèlí 
② (pour out of a container) «contents» 倒出 dàochū the sand emptied out of the bag; 沙子从袋子里倒了出来 
③ (be vacated) «building, bus» 被清场 bèi qīngchǎng 
empty 
ˈem(p)tē

▶adjective (emptier, emptiest)
1 containing nothing; not filled or occupied: he took his empty coffee cup back to the counter 
the room was empty of furniture. 
• Mathematics (of a set) containing no members or elements.
2 (of words or a gesture) lacking meaning or sincerity: his answer sounded a little empty 
empty threats.
3 having no value or purpose: her life felt empty and meaningless.
4 informal hungry. 
▶verb (empties, emptying, emptied) [with object] remove all the contents of (a container): we empty the cash register each night at closing time 
pockets were emptied of loose change. 
• remove (the contents) from a container: he emptied out the contents of his briefcase. 
• [no object] (of a place) be vacated by people in it: the bar suddenly seemed to empty. 
• [no object] (empty into) (of a river) discharge itself into (the sea or a lake). 
▶noun (plural empties) (usually empties) informal a container (especially a bottle or glass) left empty of its contents. 
PHRASES
running on empty exhausted of all one's resources or sustenance. empty vessels make the most noise (or sound) proverb those with least wisdom or knowledge are always the most talkative.on an empty stomach see stomach. DERIVATIVES emptily 
ˈem(p)təlē 
adverbORIGIN Old English ǣmtig, ǣmetig ‘at leisure, unoccupied, empty,’ from ǣmetta ‘leisure,’ perhaps from ā ‘no, not’ + mōt ‘meeting’ (see moot) .
