end 
BrE ɛnd, AmE ɛnd 

A.  noun 
① (last part) 末尾 the end of the year/month/week 年终/月底/周末 at the end of his life 在他临终前 the very end 最后 
② (finish) 结束 ‘The End’ (of film) “剧终” (of book) “全文完” by the end of [something] 到…结束时 ‹year, activity›at the end of the day colloquial 说到底 to be at the end of one's endurance/patience/strength 忍无可忍/忍耐不住/筋疲力尽 to be at or come to the/an end (be over) 结束 (be used up) 耗尽 to bring [something] to an end 结束某事 to put an end to [something] 终止某事 there is no end to [something] 某事物无穷无尽 to annoy [somebody] no end colloquial 让某人大为恼怒 to have no end of trouble colloquial 有许多麻烦 to or till the end of time literary 直到永远 it's not the end of the world figurative colloquial 这没什么大不了的 that'll be the end of you! 你完蛋了！ that's the end of that! 别再说了！ in the end (finally) 最后 (in summary) 总的来说 for hours/days/weeks on end 连续几个小时/几天/几星期 
③ (extremity) 末端 (of road, place) 尽头 the front/back end of the car 车头/车尾 the end of a piece of string/a branch/the bed 线头/树梢/床头 the end of the cat's tail 猫的尾巴尖 tie the two ends together 把两头系在一起 from end to end 从一头到另一头 (at) this/the other end （在）这一头/另一头 the third from the end 倒数第三个 end to end 首尾相接地 to look at [something] end on 迎面看某物 on (its) end 竖着 the end of the road or line (for [somebody]/[something]) figurative （某人/某事物的）结局 to reach the end of the road or line figurative 走到尽头 to make (both) ends meet figurative colloquial 仅够维持生活 to get or have one's end away BrE slang 做爱 → candle, → tunnel 
A. 
①, → stick
1 
A. 
① 
④ figurative (side) 一方 yīfāng the other end 对方 to keep up one's end of the conversation colloquial 尽量找话说以免冷场 to keep one's end of the bargain colloquial 说到做到 
⑤ figurative (aspect) 方面 fāngmiàn the leisure end of the market 市场的休闲产业 
⑥ figurative (in range) 一端 yīduān a model from the cheaper end of the range 该系列中的低端款式 the upper end of this income bracket 该收入阶层中的高端 opposite ends of the social scale 社会等级中对立的两极 
⑦ (aim) 目的 mùdì for one's own ends 为了自己的目的 to this/that end 为了这个/那个目标 to be an end in itself 本身就是目的 a means to an end 达到目的的手段 the end justifies the means proverb 只要目的正当，可以不择手段 
⑧ Sport 半边场地 bànbiān chǎngdì to change ends 交换场地 
⑨ (death) 死亡 sǐwáng to meet one's end literary 死亡 sǐwáng to be nearing one's end 临终 to come to a bad/untimely/cruel end 不得好死/英年早逝/惨死 
⑩ BrE (scrap) 剩余物 shèngyúwù we found a few ends of rope 我们找到了一些绳头 
⑪ BrE colloquial (limit of what is tolerable) 可忍受的极限 kě rěnshòu de jíxiàn you really are the end! 真受不了你！ that really is the end! 这真是太过分了！ 
B.  transitive verb 结束 jiéshù to end [something]; 结束某事 to end the month in the red 到月底时欠债 to end one's days in poverty 在贫困中度过余生 the party to end all parties! 最出色的宴会！ to end one's life, colloquial to end it all 自杀 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (finish) 结束 jiéshù to end in/with [something]; 以某事物结尾 to end in failure/an argument 以失败告终/争吵收场 where's it all going to end?, where will it all end? 这一切结局会怎么样？ 
② (finish in space) «line, road» 终止 zhōngzhǐ the queue ends here 队伍排到这里 to end one metre from the house 在离房子1米的地方到头 
③ (have at extremity) to end in or with [something]; …的末端是某物 … de mòduān shì mǒu wù to end in a sharp point «stick, pencil» 有个尖头 yǒu gè jiāntóu 
④ (expire) «agreement, insurance» 到期 dàoqī PHRASAL VERB end up intransitive verb 结束 jiéshù to end up doing [something]; 最终做某事 to end up with [somebody]/[something]; 最终得到某人/某事物 to end up (as) [something]; 以某事物结束 I don't know how he'll end up 我不知道他最后结果会怎样 to end up behind a desk/on the stage 结果做了案头工作/演员 he ended up marrying his childhood sweetheart 他最终娶了青梅竹马的恋人 I wonder who'll end up with the booby prize 我在想谁最终会得到末名奖 the cake ended up burnt 蛋糕结果烤焦了 he ended up an alcoholic 他最终成了个酒鬼 
end 
end

▶noun
1 a final part of something, especially a period of time, an activity, or a story: the end of the year 
Mario led the race from beginning to end. 
• a termination of a state or situation: the party called for an end to violence 
one notice will be effective to bring the tenancy to an end. 
• used to emphasize that something, typically a subject of discussion, is considered finished: you will go to church and that's the end of it. 
• death or ruin: if she's caught stealing again, it will be the end of her career. 
• archaic (in biblical use) an ultimate state or condition: the end of that man is peace.
2 the furthest or most extreme part or point of something: a length of wire with a hook at the end 
[as modifier] : the end house. 
• a small piece that is left after something has been used: a box of candle ends. 
• a specified extreme point on a scale: homebuyers at the lower end of the market. 
• the part or share of an activity with which someone is concerned: you're going to honor your end of the deal. 
• a place that is linked to another by a telephone call, letter, or journey: “Hello,” said a voice at the other end. 
• the part of an athletic field or court defended by one team or player.
3 a goal or result that one seeks to achieve: each would use the other to further his own ends 
to this end, schools were set up for peasant women.
4 (in lawn bowling and curling) a session of play in one particular direction across the playing area.
5 American Football an offensive or defensive lineman positioned nearest to the sideline. 
▶verb come or bring to a final point; finish: [no object] : when the war ended, policy changed 
the chapter ends with a case study 
[with object] : she wanted to end the relationship. 
• [no object] reach a point and go no further: the boundary where agnosticism ends and atheism begins. 
• [no object] perform a final act: the man ended by attacking a police officer. 
• [no object] (end in) have as its final part, point, or result: one in three marriages is now likely to end in divorce. 
• [no object] (end up) eventually reach or come to a specified place, state, or course of action: I ended up in Connecticut 
you could end up with a higher income. 
PHRASES
at the end of the day informal when everything is taken into consideration: at the end of the day, I'm responsible for what happens in the school. be at (or have come to) an end be finished or completed. 
• (of a supply of something) become exhausted: our patience has come to an end. be at the end of be close to having no more of (something): he was at the end of his ability to cope. be the end informal be the limit of what one can tolerate: you really are the end! come to (or meet) a bad end be led by one's own actions to ruin or an unpleasant death. end of story informal used to emphasize that there is nothing to add on a matter just mentioned: Men don't cry in public. End of story. end one's days (or life) spend the final part of one's existence in a specified place or state: the last passenger pigeon ended her days in the Cincinnati Zoo.an end in itself a goal that is pursued in its own right to the exclusion of others. end in tears have an unhappy or painful outcome (often as a warning): this treaty will end in tears. end it all commit suicide. the end of the road (or line) the point beyond which progress or survival cannot continue: if the lawsuit is not dropped it could be the end of the road for the publisher.the end of one's rope (or tether) having no patience or energy left to cope with something: after enduring four years of mice in the house, we were at the end of our rope 
they have reached the end of their tether.the end of the world the termination of life on the earth. 
• informal a complete disaster: it's not the end of the world if you're not great at sports. end on with the furthest point of an object facing toward one: seen end on, their sharp, rocky summits point like arrows. 
• with the furthest point of an object touching that of another: slim stone tiles had been layered end on with incredible skill. end to end in a row with the furthest point of one object touching that of another object. in the end eventually or on reflection: in the end, I saw that she was right. keep (or hold) one's end up informal perform well in a difficult or competitive situation. make an end of cause (someone or something) to stop existing. make (both) ends meet earn enough money to live without getting into debt. never (or not) hear the end of be continually reminded of (an unpleasant topic or cause of annoyance). no end informal to a great extent; very much: this cheered me up no end. no end of informal a vast number or amount of (something): we shared no end of good times. on end
1 continuing without stopping for a specified period of time: sometimes they'll be gone for days on end.
2 in an upright position: he brushed his hair, leaving a tuft standing on end. put an end to cause someone or something to stop existing: injury put an end to his career. a —— to end all ——s informal used to emphasize how impressive or successful something is of its kind: it was a party to end all parties. without end without a limit or boundary: a war without end.ORIGIN Old English ende (noun), endian (verb), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch einde (noun), einden (verb) and German Ende (noun), enden (verb).
