enough 
BrE ɪˈnʌf, AmE ɪˈnəf 

A.  adjectiveattributive and postpositive 
① (adequate amount or number of) 足够的 zúgòu de is there enough coffee left? 剩下的咖啡够吗？ I didn't get enough sleep 我睡眠不足 she made enough fuss about getting it ironic 她因达到了目的而大肆炫耀 more than enough, enough and to spare 绰绰有余 he's fool enough to believe it 他会相信这个，真够傻的 I go on enough walks to keep fit 我尽量步行以保持健康 
② (too many or much) 太多的 tài duō de I've seen enough television repeats 我看够了电视重播 as if that were not enough … 好像那还不够似的… 
B.  pronoun 
① (adequate amount or number) 足够 zúgòu he's had quite enough (to drink) 他已经喝得够多的了 I can't eat enough of it 这东西我怎么也吃不够 it's enough to make you weep 这足以使你哭泣 enough said colloquial 不必多说 
② (too much or many) 太多 tài duō I've had enough of him/his rudeness 他这个人/他的粗鲁无礼我受够了 more than enough 过多 that's enough! 够了！ enough is enough 凡事要适可而止 
C.  adverb 
① (sufficiently) 足够地 zúgòu de the meat is not cooked enough 肉没有熟透 before he was old enough to shave 在他未到刮胡子的年龄时 
② (fairly) 相当 xiāngdāng the meal was good enough 这顿饭还过得去 
③ (very) 很 hěn the threat was plain enough 威胁十分明显 and sure enough colloquial 不出所料 
④ (for emphasis) [表示强调]funnily/strangely enough 说来好玩/说来也怪 
enough 
iˈnəf

▶det. & pronoun as much or as many as required: [as determiner] : too much work and not enough people to do it 
there was just enough room for two cars 
[as pronoun] : they ordered more than enough for five people 
getting enough of the right things to eat 
[as postpositive adjective] : there will be time enough to tell you when we meet. 
• used to indicate that one is unwilling to tolerate any more of something undesirable: [as determiner] : we've got enough problems without that 
[as pronoun] : I've had enough of this arguing 
that's enough, pack it in. 
▶adverb
1 to the required degree or extent (used after an adjective, adverb, or verb); adequately: before he was old enough to shave 
you're not big enough for basketball.
2 to a moderate degree; fairly: he can get there easily enough 
he seems nice enough.
3 [with sentence adverb] used for emphasis: curiously enough, there is no mention of him. 
▶exclam. used to express an impatient desire for the cessation of undesirable behavior or speech: Enough! After six years of your arguing, I've had it! 
PHRASES
enough is enough no more will be tolerated. enough said there is no need to say more; all is understood.ORIGIN Old English genōg, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch genoeg and German genug .
