entry 
BrE ˈɛntri, AmE ˈɛntri 
noun 
① Uncountable and countable(entrance) 进入 jìnrù to make an entry 进入 jìnrù to gain entry to or into [something] 得以进入某处 to force entry to or into [something] 强行闯入某处 illegal entry; 非法闯入 
② Theatre, Sport 上场 shàngchǎng 
③ Countable(entranceway) 入口 rùkǒu 
④ Uncountable(admission) 进入权 jìnrùquán entry by ticket only 凭票入内 entry (to [something]) is free （某处）免费进入 to gain/be refused entry (to [something]) 获准/被拒绝进入（某处） right of entry 入境权 ‘No Entry’ (on door) “不得入内” (in one-way street) “不得驶入” 
⑤ Uncountable(participation) entry into [something]; 加入 ‹group› 从事 cóngshì ‹politics, profession›
⑥ Uncountable(record) 登记 dēngjì 
⑦ Countable(recorded item) 记录 jìlù to make an entry of [something] 记录某物 to make an entry in the log/one's diary 写一条日志/一则日记 
⑧ Finance 入账 rùzhàng 
⑨ Countable(in reference book) 条目 tiáomù 
⑩ UncountableComputing 输入 shūrù 
⑪ Uncountable(in competition) 参赛 cānsài entry is open to everyone 人人均可参赛 
⑫ Countable(competitor) 参赛者 cānsàizhě a late entry 新参赛的选手 
⑬ Countable(item for competition) 参赛作品 cānsài zuòpǐn one's entry for [something] 参加某竞赛的作品 
⑭ Countable(number of competitors) 参赛人数 cānsài rénshù 
entry 
ˈentrē

▶noun (plural entries)
1 an act of going or coming in: the door was locked, but he forced an entry. 
• a place of entrance, such as a door or lobby. 
• the right, means, or opportunity to enter a place or be a member of something: undocumented workers seeking entry to the United States. 
• the action of undertaking something or becoming a member of something: more young people are postponing their entry into full-time work. 
• Bridge a card providing an opportunity to transfer the lead to a particular hand. 
• Law the action of taking up the legal right to property. 
• Music the point in a piece of music at which a particular performer in an ensemble starts or resumes playing or singing. 
• dialect a passage between buildings.
2 an item written or printed in a diary, list, ledger, or reference book. 
• the action of recording an entry: sophisticated features to help ensure accurate data entry.
3 a person or thing competing in a race or competition: from the hundreds of entries we received, twelve winners were finally chosen. 
• [in singular] the number of competitors in a particular race or competition. 
• the action of participating in a race or competition.
4 the forward part of a ship's hull below the waterline, considered in terms of breadth or narrowness. ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French entree, based on Latin intrata, feminine past participle of intrare (see enter) .
