every 
BrE ˈɛvri, AmE ˈɛvri 
adjectiveattributive 
① (each) 每一个 měi yī gè insects of every kind 各种昆虫 I looked in every direction 我四处张望 they wiped up every bit of mud 他们把泥点都擦掉了 it gets worse every year 一年不如一年 give me or I prefer Australia every time 我当然更喜欢澳大利亚 
② (all possible) 所有的 suǒyǒu de I have every confidence in her 我对她有充分的信心 you have every reason to be pleased 你完全有理由感到满意 at every opportunity 一有机会 I wished them every success 我祝愿他们万事如意 
③ (indicating frequency) 每…的 měi… de once every day/second day/few days 每天/每隔一天/每隔几天一次 change the oil every 5,000 miles 每5,000英里换一次机油 every now and then, every now and again, every once in a while, every so often 偶尔 
every 
ˈevrē

▶det. (preceding a singular noun) used to refer to all the individual members of a set without exception: the hotel assures every guest of personal attention 
[with possessive determiner] : the children hung on his every word. 
• used before an amount to indicate something happening at specified intervals: tours are every thirty minutes 
they had every third week off. 
• (used for emphasis) all possible; the utmost: you have every reason to be disappointed. 
PHRASES
every bit as (in comparisons) equally as: the planning should be every bit as enjoyable as the event itself. every inch see inch1. every last (or every single) used to emphasize that every member of a group is included: unbelievers, every last one of them 
they insist you weigh every single thing.every man has his price proverb everyone is open to bribery if the inducement offered is large enough. every now and then (or now and again) from time to time; occasionally: I used to see him every now and then.every other (or every second) each second in a series; each alternate: I train with weights every other day 
the auctions are held every second week.every so often from time to time; occasionally: every so often I need a laugh to stay sane. every time without exception: it brews a perfect blend of coffee every time. every which way informal in all directions: you can see cracks moving every which way. 
• by all available means: since then he has tried every which way to avoid contact with his ex.ORIGIN Old English ǣfre ǣlc (see ever, each) .
