evil 
BrE ˈiːv(ə)l, ˈiːvɪl, AmE ˈivəl 

A.  adjective 
① (wicked) 邪恶的 xié'è de ‹person, purpose, spirit›the Evil One 恶魔 an evil deed or act 恶行 to give [somebody] the evil eye 恶狠狠地看某人 the evil hour/day 倒霉的时刻/日子 
② (foul) 令人厌恶的 lìng rén yànwù de evil weather/an evil smell 讨厌的天气/难闻的气味 
B.  noun 
① Uncountable(wickedness) 邪恶 xié'è to speak evil of [somebody] 说某人的坏话 the root of all evil 万恶之源 to return good for evil 以德报怨 
② Countable(bad thing) 坏事 huàishì (of war or disease, social problem) 危害 wēihài (of doctrine, regime) 罪恶 zuì'è the evils of drink/drugs 酗酒/吸毒的害处 the evils of racism 种族主义的罪恶 the lesser of two evils 两害中较轻者 
evil 
ˈēvəl

▶adjective profoundly immoral and malevolent: his evil deeds 
no man is so evil as to be beyond redemption. 
• (of a force or spirit) embodying or associated with the forces of the devil: we have been driven out of the house by this evil spirit. 
• harmful or tending to harm: the evil effects of high taxes. 
• (of something seen or smelled) extremely unpleasant: a bathroom with an evil smell. 
▶noun profound immorality, wickedness, and depravity, especially when regarded as a supernatural force: the world is stalked by relentless evil 
good and evil in eternal opposition. 
• a manifestation of this, especially in people's actions: the evil that took place last Thursday. 
• something that is harmful or undesirable: sexism, racism, and all other unpleasant social evils. 
PHRASES
the evil eye a gaze or stare superstitiously believed to cause material harm: he gave me the evil eye as I walked down the corridor. the Evil One archaic the Devil. give someone (the) evils British informal glare at someone: I looked at the girl he'd been eyeing up and I gave her the evils. put off the evil day (or hour) postpone something unpleasant for as long as possible.speak evil of slander: it is a sin to speak evil of the king.DERIVATIVES evilly 
ˈēvəllē 
adverb. evilness 
ˈēvəlnəs 
nounORIGIN Old English yfel, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch euvel and German Übel .
