exchange 
BrE ɪksˈtʃeɪndʒ, ɛksˈtʃeɪndʒ, AmE ɪksˈtʃeɪndʒ 

A.  transitive verb 交换 jiāohuàn to exchange [something] for [something]; 用某物换取某物 to exchange [something] with [somebody]; 与某人交换某物 to exchange looks/blows (with [somebody]) （与某人）互换眼色/打架 to exchange words 交谈几句 
B.  noun 
① (swap) 交换 jiāohuàn in exchange (for [something]); 作为（对某物的）交换 he is teaching her French in exchange for her teaching him English 她教他英语，作为交换他教她法语 exchange of ideas/information 想法/信息的交流 
② Finance 兑换 duìhuàn the rate of exchange 汇兑率 bill of exchange 汇票 
③ (discussion) 争论 zhēnglùn a heated/an angry exchange 激烈/愤怒的争吵 
④ (reciprocal visit) 互访 hùfǎng to go on an exchange 进行互访 
⑤ Finance (place of business) 交易所 jiāoyìsuǒ 
⑥ Telecommunications (telephone) exchange 交换局 jiāohuànjú 
exchange 
iksˈCHānj

▶noun an act of giving one thing and receiving another (especially of the same type or value) in return: negotiations should eventually lead to an exchange of land for peace 
an exchange of prisoners of war 
opportunities for the exchange of information. 
• a visit or visits in which two people or groups from different countries stay with each other or do each other's jobs: [as modifier] : nine colleagues were away on an exchange visit to Germany. 
• a short conversation; an argument: there was a heated exchange. 
• the giving of money for its equivalent in the money of another country. 
• the fee or percentage charged for converting the currency of one country into that of another. 
• a system or market in which commercial transactions involving currency, shares, commodities, etc., can be carried out within or between countries. See also foreign exchange . 
• a central office or station of operations providing telephone service: private branch exchanges to automate internal telephone networks. 
• Chess a move or short sequence of moves in which both players capture material of comparable value, or particularly (the exchange) in which one captures a rook in return for a knight or bishop (and is said to win the exchange). 
• a building or institution used for the trading of a particular commodity or commodities: the New York Stock Exchange. 
▶verb [with object] give something and receive something of the same kind in return: we exchanged addresses 
he exchanged a concerned glance with Stephen. 
• give or receive one thing in place of another: we regret that tickets cannot be exchanged 
she exchanged her suburban housewife look for leathers and tattoos. 
PHRASES
in exchange as a thing exchanged: at 8, he was carrying bags of groceries in exchange for a nickel.DERIVATIVES exchangeability 
iksˌCHānjəˈbilədē 
noun. exchangeable 
iksˈCHānjəb(ə)l eksˈCHānjəb(ə)l 
adjective. exchanger 
iksˈCHānjər 
nounORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French eschange (noun), eschangier (verb), based on changer (see change). The spelling was influenced by Latin ex- ‘out, utterly’ (see ex-1) .
