exercise 
BrE ˈɛksəsʌɪz, AmE ˈɛksərˌsaɪz 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(exertion) 锻炼 duànliàn to get or BrE take exercise colloquial 锻炼身体 
② Countable(activities) 体操 tǐcāo breathing/keep-fit exercises 吐纳/健身操 
③ Countable(task to develop skill) 练习 liànxí piano exercises 钢琴练习 
④ Countable(question) 习题 xítí a maths exercise 数学题 
⑤ Uncountable(application) 运用 yùnyòng the exercise of power 权力的行使 in the exercise of one's duties 在履行职责 
⑥ Countable(operation) 活动 huódòng an academic/a marketing exercise 学术/营销活动 an exercise in democracy/diplomacy 民主运动/外交活动 an exercise in futility; 白费劲的事 
⑦ CountableMilitary 演习 yǎnxí a military exercise 军事演习 to go on (an) exercise 进行演习 
B.  exercises noun plural AmE (ceremonies) 仪式 yíshì graduation exercises 毕业典礼 
C.  transitive verb 
① (train) 锻炼 duànliàn ‹body, mind›; 训练 xùnliàn ‹dog›
② (use) 运用 yùnyòng ‹skill, authority›; 行使 xíngshǐ ‹power, right›; 保持 bǎochí ‹patience, restraint›; 实施 shíshī ‹control›to exercise considerable or a great deal of influence over [somebody]/[something] 对某人/某事物产生很大影响 to exercise care in doing [something] 小心做某事 
③ (worry) 使担忧 shǐ dānyōu to exercise [somebody's] mind 使某人伤脑筋 
D.  intransitive verb 锻炼 duànliàn 
exercise 
ˈeksərˌsīz

▶noun
1 activity requiring physical effort, carried out especially to sustain or improve health and fitness: exercise improves your heart and lung power 
loosening-up exercises. 
• a task or activity done to practice or test a skill: there are exercises at the end of each chapter to check comprehension. 
• a process or activity carried out for a specific purpose, especially one concerned with a specified area or skill: an exercise in public relations. 
• (often exercises) a military drill or training maneuver. 
• (exercises) North American ceremonies: graduation exercises.
2 the use or application of a faculty, right, or process: the free exercise of religion. 
▶verb [with object]
1 use or apply (a faculty, right, or process): control is exercised by the Board 
anyone receiving a suspect package should exercise extreme caution.
2 [no object] engage in physical activity to sustain or improve health and fitness; take exercise: she still exercised every day. 
• exert (part of the body) to promote or improve muscular strength: raise your knee to exercise the upper leg and hip muscles. 
• cause (an animal) to engage in exercise: she exercised her dogs before breakfast.
3 occupy the thoughts of; worry or perplex: the knowledge that a larger margin was possible still exercised him. DERIVATIVES exercisable 
ˈeksərˌsīzəb(ə)l 
adjectiveORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘application of a faculty, right, or process’): via Old French from Latin exercitium, from exercere ‘keep busy, practice,’ from ex- ‘thoroughly’ + arcere ‘keep in or away.’
