explode 
BrE ɪkˈspləʊd, ɛkˈspləʊd, AmE ɪkˈsploʊd 

A.  intransitive verb 
① (blow up) «bomb, rocket, gas, star» 爆炸 bàozhà 
② (be destroyed) «aircraft, ship, building» 被炸毁 bèi zhàhuǐ 
③ (expand) «gas, chemical» 剧烈膨胀 jùliè péngzhàng 
④ (arise suddenly) «violence» 爆发 bàofā to explode into [something]; «crowd, audience» 突然爆发出… to explode into applause 爆发出鼓掌喝彩声 to explode with or into rage/laughter 勃然大怒/哄然大笑 to be ready to explode «person» 怒火一触即发 
⑤ (increase) «population, birthrate» 激增 jīzēng 
⑥ (appear suddenly) 突然出现 tūrán chūxiàn to explode on to the scene; 突然现身 to explode on to the musical/pop/theatrical scene 突然出现在音乐界/流行音乐界/戏剧界 
B.  transitive verb 
① (detonate) 引爆 yǐnbào ‹bomb›
② (refute) 戳穿 chuōchuān ‹rumour, myth›; «publication» 推翻 tuīfān ‹theory, assumption›
explode 
ikˈsplōd

▶verb [no object]
1 burst or shatter violently and noisily as a result of rapid combustion, decomposition, excessive internal pressure, or other process, typically scattering fragments widely: a large bomb exploded in a park. 
• [with object] cause (a bomb) to do this: the USSR had not yet exploded its first nuclear weapon. 
• technical undergo a violent expansion in which much energy is released as a shock wave: lead ensures that gasoline burns rather than explodes. 
• (of a person) suddenly give expression to violent and uncontainable emotion, especially anger: he can explode with anger 
[with direct speech] : “This is ludicrous!” she exploded. 
• (of a violent emotion or a situation) arise or develop suddenly: tension that could explode into violence at any time. 
• (explode into) suddenly begin to move or start a new activity: a bird exploded into flight. 
• increase suddenly or rapidly in size, number, or extent: the car population of Warsaw has exploded. 
• (as adjective exploded) (of a diagram or drawing) showing the components of a mechanism as if separated by an explosion but in the normal relative positions: an exploded diagram of the rifle's parts.
2 [with object] show (a belief or theory) to be false or unfounded: the myths that link smoking with glamour need to be exploded. DERIVATIVES exploder nounORIGIN mid 16th century (in the sense ‘reject scornfully, discard’): from Latin explodere ‘drive out by clapping, hiss off the stage,’ from ex- ‘out’ + plaudere ‘to clap.’ Sense
2 is derived from the original sense of the word. Sense
1 (late 18th century) evolved via an old sense ‘expel with violence and sudden noise,’ perhaps influenced by obsolete displode ‘burst with a noise.’
