expression 
BrE ɪkˈsprɛʃ(ə)n, ɛkˈsprɛʃ(ə)n, AmE ɪkˈsprɛʃən 
noun 
① Countable and uncountable(revealing one's thoughts, feelings) 表达 biǎodá to give expression to [something]; 表达某事物 he finds it hard to give expression to his thoughts 他觉得难以表达自己的想法 freedom of expression; 言论自由 beyond expression 无法言传 
② Countable and uncountable(manifestation) (of emotion) 流露 liúlù (of friendship, gratitude etc.) 表现 biǎoxiàn to accept [something] as an expression of [something]; 接受某事物作为某事物的表示 a spontaneous expression of joy/gratitude; 喜悦/感激的不自觉流露 to give expression to [something]; 表露某事物 to find expression in [something]; 在某事物中得到表现 
③ Uncountable(feeling) 情感的表露 qínggǎn de biǎolù to put expression into [something]; 在某事物中注入感情 to lack expression; 缺乏感情 
④ Countable(look) 表情 biǎoqíng with an expression of horror/concern; 面带惧色/面露关切 you could tell from her expression that she wasn't happy 她看上去不高兴 
⑤ Countable(choice of words) 措词 cuòcí (phrase) 词语 cíyǔ if you'll pardon the expression; 请原谅我这么说 
⑥ Uncountableformal (squeezing out) 榨出 zhàchū 
⑦ CountableMathematics 表达式 biǎodáshì 
expression 
ikˈspreSHən

▶noun
1 the process of making known one's thoughts or feelings: his views found expression in his moral sermons 
she accepted his expressions of sympathy. 
• the conveying of feeling in the face or voice, in a work of art, or in the performance of a piece of music: eyes empty of expression 
their instruments have a rich variety of expression.
2 the look on someone's face that conveys a particular emotion: a sad expression.
3 a word or phrase, especially an idiomatic one, used to convey an idea: nowhere is the expression “garbage in, garbage out” any truer. 
• Mathematics a collection of symbols that jointly express a quantity: the expression for the circumference of a circle is 2πr.
4 the production of something, especially by pressing or squeezing it out: essential oils obtained by distillation or expression.
5 Genetics the appearance in a phenotype of a characteristic or effect attributed to a particular gene. 
• (also gene expression) the process by which possession of a gene leads to the appearance in the phenotype of the corresponding character. DERIVATIVES expressional 
ekˈspreSHnəl 
adjectiveORIGIN late Middle English: from Latin expressio(n-), from exprimere ‘press out, express.’ Compare with express1 .
