extend 
BrE ɪkˈstɛnd, ɛkˈstɛnd, AmE ɪkˈstɛnd 
A. transitive verb 
① (enlarge) 扩建 kuòjiàn ‹building, road›
② (prolong) 延长 yáncháng ‹deadline, opening hours, visit›; 延长…的期限 yáncháng… de qīxiàn ‹visa›
③ (expand) 扩大 kuòdà ‹vocabulary, influence, power, authority›; 扩大…的适用范围 kuòdà… de shìyòng fànwéi ‹law›; 扩展 kuòzhǎn ‹knowledge, meaning, idea, theory, story, business, market›; 增加 zēngjiā ‹services, demand›the list has been extended to include new members 名单中已经增添了新成员 
④ (stretch) «person» 伸展 shēnzhǎn ‹limb›; «bird» 展开 zhǎnkāi ‹wing›to extend one's hand (in greeting) 伸出手 
⑤ formal (offer) 提供 tígōng ‹credit›to extend [something] to [somebody]; 给某人提供 ‹loan, help› 向某人发出 xiàng mǒu rén fāchū ‹invitation› 向某人表示 xiàng mǒu rén biǎoshì ‹welcome›
⑥ figurative (push to limit) 使…竭尽全力 shǐ… jiéjìn quánlì ‹pupil›to be fully extended «school, hospital» 竭尽全力 jiéjìn quánlì 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (stretch) «road, lake, grounds, premises» 延伸 yánshēn ; «weather, influence» 持续 chíxù to extend from [something] to [something]; 从某处延伸到某处 to extend all the way to/as far as [something]; 一直延伸到… to extend beyond [something]; 超过某物 to extend over the whole country 扩大到全国 
② (last) 延续 yánxù to extend into May/late into the night 延续到五月/深夜 to extend for five years 持续五年 to extend over a month/a lifetime 延续一个月/一生 
③ figurative (reach) 涉及 shèjí to extend to [somebody]/[something]; «interest, authority, knowledge» 涉及到某人/某事物 to extend beyond national boundaries 超越国界 her sympathy extends to everyone 她对每个人都抱有同情心 
④ figurative (go as far as) 达到 dádào my charity doesn't extend to writing you cheques 我不会慷慨到给你开支票的地步 
C.  reflexive verb to extend oneself 竭尽全力 jiéjìn quánlì she's an able pupil, but she doesn't extend herself 她是个有能力的学生，但是她不肯尽全力 
extend 
▶verb
1 he attempted to extend his dominions: expand, enlarge, increase, make larger, make bigger; lengthen, widen, broaden. ANTONYMS reduce, shrink.
2 the garden extends down to the road: continue, carry on, run on, stretch (out), reach, lead.
3 we have extended our range of services: widen, expand, broaden; augment, supplement, increase, add to, enhance, develop. ANTONYMS narrow.
4 extending the life of the charter: prolong, lengthen, increase; stretch out, protract, spin out, string out. ANTONYMS shorten.
5 extend your arms and legs: stretch out, spread out, reach out, straighten out.
6 he extended a hand in greeting: hold out, reach out, hold forth; offer, give, outstretch, proffer.
7 we wish to extend our thanks to Mr. Bayes: offer, proffer, give, grant, bestow, accord.
PHRASES
extend to her tolerance did not always extend to her staff: include, take in, incorporate, encompass.
