extreme 
BrE ɪkˈstriːm, ɛkˈstriːm, AmE ɪkˈstrim 

A.  adjective 
① (very great) 极度的 jídù de extreme poverty 赤贫 extreme caution/pleasure/urgency 极度的谨慎/快乐/紧迫 
② (unusual) 极端的 jíduān de extreme weather conditions 极端恶劣的天气条件 to go to extreme lengths to do [something] 不遗余力地做某事 to an extreme degree 极端地 
③ (extremist) 偏激的 piānjī de ‹political view›the extreme right/left 极右/左派 
④ (farthest) 远端的 yuǎnduān de in the extreme north/south 在最北端/最南端 
B.  noun 
① (excess) 极端 jíduān to go to extremes 走极端 to take or carry [something] to extremes 把某事做得过头 to be driven to extremes 被迫走极端 to go to the other or opposite extreme 走到另一个极端 to go from one extreme to the other 从一个极端走到另一个极端 the extremes of love and hatred 爱与恨两种截然不同的感情 extremes of passion/cruelty 热情/残酷之至 
② (greatest degree) 极度 jídù extremes of cold/wind/rain 严寒/狂风/骤雨 extremes of temperature 酷热和严寒 in the extreme 极其 
extreme 
ikˈstrēm

▶adjective
1 reaching a high or the highest degree; very great: extreme cold. 
• not usual; exceptional: in extreme cases the soldier may be discharged. 
• very severe or serious: expulsion is an extreme sanction. 
• (of a person or their opinions) advocating severe or drastic measures; far from moderate, especially politically: the party has expelled some of its more extreme members. 
• denoting or relating to a sport performed in a hazardous environment and involving great physical risk, such as parachuting or whitewater rafting.
2 [attributive] furthest from the center or a given point; outermost: the extreme northwest of Scotland. 
▶noun
1 either of two abstract things that are as different from each other as possible: unbridled talk at one extreme and total silence at the other. 
• the highest or most extreme degree of something: extremes of temperature. 
• a very severe or serious act: he was unwilling to go to the extreme of civil war.
2 Logic the subject or predicate in a proposition, or the major or minor term in a syllogism (as contrasted with the middle term). 
PHRASES
extremes meet proverb opposite extremes have much in common. go (or take something) to extremes take an extreme course of action; do something to an extreme degree: we may go to extremes to find peace and quiet. in the extreme to an extreme degree: the reasoning was convoluted in the extreme.DERIVATIVES extremeness 
ikˈstrēmnəs 
nounORIGIN late Middle English: via Old French from Latin extremus ‘outermost, utmost,’ superlative of exterus ‘outer.’
