face 
BrE feɪs, AmE feɪs 

A.  noun 
① Countable脸 liǎn the muscles of the face 面部肌肉 with tears streaming down one's face 泪流满面地 a pretty/pale face 漂亮/苍白的面孔 a round face 圆脸 her face was red with embarrassment 她窘得满脸通红 she's a familiar face 她是个熟人 there are some new faces here tonight 今晚在这里有一些新面孔 he never forgets a face 他对见过的人过目不忘 to lie face down or downwards/up or upwards 俯卧/仰卧 in [somebody's] face; 对着某人的脸 the wind is blowing in our faces 风向着我们迎面吹来 to [somebody's] face; 当着某人的面 to criticize [somebody] to his/her face 当面批评某人 to hide one's face literal 把脸藏起来 figurative 躲起来 duǒ qilai he hid his face in his hands 他用手蒙住了脸 to show one's face figurative 露面 I'll never dare show my face in there again 我再也不敢到那里去了 face to face 面对面 I've never met the princess face to face 我从来没有面见过公主 in your face colloquial (blatantly aggressive) 咄咄逼人的 duōduō bī rén de (provocative) 刺激的 cìjī de our music is loud and in your face 我们的音乐热闹刺激 to get right in [somebody's] face colloquial 直言不讳 to feed or fill or stuff one's face colloquial 大吃一顿 to set one's face against [something]/doing [something] 坚决反对某事/做某事 → bury 
⑤ 
② Countable(expression) 面容 miànróng the children's happy, smiling faces 孩子们幸福的笑脸 their faces were sad/serious 他们神情悲伤/严肃 she looked at me with a puzzled face 她一脸困惑地看着我 to have a long face 拉长着脸 his face fell 他的脸沉了下来 to put on a brave or bold or good face 装出若无其事的样子 to make or pull a face or faces (at [somebody]) （朝某人）扮鬼脸 he pulled a face when I asked him to lay the table 我叫他摆桌子，他做出一副苦相 to make a disapproving face 显出不以为然的样子 
③ Uncountablecolloquial humorous (make-up) to put one's face on 化妆 huàzhuāng 
④ Uncountable(respect) 面子 miànzi to lose face 丢脸 a loss of face 丢脸 to save (one's) face 保全面子 to save [somebody's] face 保全某人的面子 
⑤ Uncountablecolloquial dated (effrontery) 厚脸皮 hòuliǎnpí to have the face to do [something] 有脸做某事 they had the face to ask for more money! 他们还有脸要更多的钱！ 
⑥ Countable(appearance, nature) 外表 wàibiǎo the changing face of the city 不断变化的城市面貌 on the face of it 从表面上看 
⑦ Countable(surface) 表面 biǎomiàn to disappear or vanish off the face of the earth 消失得无影无踪 
⑧ Countable(of mountain, rock, mine) 面 miàn the steep face of the rock 陡峭的岩壁 the north face of the Eiger 艾格尔峰的北坡 
⑨ (of clock, watch) 面 miàn the face of a watch/clock 表面/钟面 a dodecahedron has twelve faces 12面体有12个面 
⑩ Countable(front) 正面 zhèngmiàn he put the cards face down on the table 他把牌正面朝下放在桌子上 the books are displayed face out 书封面朝上摆放 
⑪ CountablePrinting = typeface 
⑫ Uncountablein the face of [something] (despite) 不顾某事物 bù gù mǒu shìwù (in direct confrontation) 面临某事物 miànlín mǒu shìwù the peace conference went ahead in the face of the threats 尽管有威胁，和平会议仍然按计划举行 she can't hope to win in the face of such opposition 面对这样的反对力量，她没有希望赢 
B.  transitive verb 
① (look towards) 面向 miànxiàng they stood facing one another 他们面对面站着 he turned round to face the audience 他转过身来面对观众 the boy facing you 面朝你的那个男孩 the room faces the sea 房间朝海 the house faces west 房子朝西 face the front! 向前看！ 
② figurative (present itself to) 面临 miànlín the problems faced by one-parent families 单亲家庭面临的问题 
③ (have to deal with) 必须面对 bìxū miànduì to be faced with a difficult decision 必须作出艰难的决定 the company is facing a financial crisis 公司正面临财务危机 they face fines of up to £1000 他们要支付高达1,000英镑的罚金 to face spending the rest of one's life in prison 不得不在监狱里度过余生 if she wins this match she will face Steinberg in the final 如果她赢了这场比赛，她将在决赛中和斯坦伯格相遇 
④ (tackle) 正视 zhèngshì the problem will have to be faced sooner or later 这个问题迟早要解决 to face one's responsibilities 勇于承担责任 they faced the future with fear 他们对未来忧心忡忡 she turned to face her attackers 她转过身来直面那些袭击她的人 I can't face spending Christmas with my parents 我真不愿意跟父母一起过圣诞节 he can't face life without her 没有她，他活不下去 they cooked me a lovely meal, but I couldn't face it 他们为我做了一顿丰盛的饭菜，但我实在没有胃口 
⑤ (accept) 承认 chéngrèn ‹truth, evidence›to face (the) facts 面对现实 let's face it colloquial 让我们接受现实吧 
⑥ (present) 使面对 shǐ miànduì to face [somebody] with [something]; 使某人面对某事物 to face [somebody] with the truth 使某人面对事实 to be faced with the evidence 面对证据 
⑦ Printing «picture, diagram» 正对 zhèngduì facing page
12 正对第12页 
⑧ Construction 覆盖 fùgài to face [something] with [something]; 用某物覆盖某物 the wall was faced with white marble 墙壁贴了白色大理石 
⑨ (trim, reinforce) 给…镶边 gěi… xiāngbiān ‹clothing›to face [something] with [something]; 用某物给某物镶边 a cloak faced with white 镶有白边的斗篷 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (face or front the direction of) 面向 miànxiàng she was facing towards the road 她面朝着马路 this room faces towards the south 这间屋子朝南 when travelling on a train I prefer to face forwards 我乘火车旅行时喜欢面朝前坐 
② AmE Military 改变方向 gǎibiàn fāngxiàng about/left/right face! 向后/左/右转！ PHRASAL VERBS face down transitive verb[face somebody/something down, face down somebody/something] 决然把…压倒 juérán bǎ… yādǎo she faced down the protestors 她挫败了反对者 he faced down some severe questioning 他抗住了严厉的质问 face out transitive verb[face somebody/something out] 与…硬顶到底 yǔ… yìngdǐng dàodǐ ‹person, critics›; 在…中坚持到底 zài… zhōng jiānchí dàodǐ ‹situation, crisis, matter›face up to transitive verb[face up to somebody/something] 勇于面对 yǒngyú miànduì to face up to the fact that … 正视…的现实 to face up to one's responsibilities 勇于承担自己的责任 
face 
fās

▶noun
1 the front part of a person's head from the forehead to the chin, or the corresponding part in an animal. 
• the face as expressing emotion; an expression shown on the face: the happy faces of these children. 
• a manifestation or outward aspect of something: the unacceptable face of social drinking. 
• [with adjective] a person of a particular type: this season's squad has a lot of old faces in it.
2 the surface of a thing, especially one that is presented to the view or has a particular function, in particular: 
• Geometry each of the surfaces of a solid: the faces of a cube. 
• a vertical or sloping side of a mountain or cliff: the south face of Broad Peak. 
• the side of a planet or moon facing the observer. 
• the front of a building. 
• the plate of a clock or watch bearing the digits or hands. 
• the distinctive side of a playing card. 
• short for typeface. 
• the side of a coin showing the head or principal design. 
▶verb [with object]
1 be positioned with the face or front toward (someone or something): he turned to face her. 
• [no object] have the face or front pointing in a specified direction: the house faces due east. 
• [no object] (of a soldier) turn in a particular direction: they immediately faced about.
2 confront and deal with or accept: honesty forced her to face facts 
[no object] : the candidates choose not to face up to the pragmatic issues. 
• (face someone/something down) overcome someone or something by a show of determination: he faced down persistent hecklers at a noontime rally. 
• have (a difficult event or situation) in prospect: each defendant faced a maximum sentence of
10 years. 
• (of a problem or difficult situation) present itself to and require action from (someone): if you were suddenly faced with an emergency, would you know how to cope?
3 (usually be faced with) cover the surface of (a thing) with a layer of a different material: the external basement walls were faced with granite slabs. 
PHRASES
face down with the face or surface turned toward the ground: he lay face down on his bed.face the music be confronted with the unpleasant consequences of one's actions. the face of the earth used for emphasis or exaggeration, to refer to the existence or disappearance of someone or something: he's just disappeared off the face of the earth 
the most grueling training on the face of the earth. face up with the face or surface turned upward to view: place the panel face up before cutting.get out of someone's face [usually as imperative] North American informal stop harassing or annoying someone: shut up and get out of my face. have the face to do something dated have the effrontery to do something. in one's face directly at or against one; as one approaches: she slammed the door in my face. in the face of when confronted with: her resolution in the face of the enemy. 
• in spite of: reform had been introduced in the face of considerable opposition. in your face see in-your-face. lose face suffer a loss of respect; be humiliated: the code of conduct required that he strike back or lose face. loss of face a loss of respect; humiliation: he could step aside now without loss of face. make a face (or faces) produce an expression on one's face that shows dislike, disgust, or some other negative emotion, or that is intended to be amusing: she made a face and tossed her purse at him.on the face of it without knowing all of the relevant facts; at first glance: on the face of it, these improvements look to be insignificant. put a good (or brave or bold) face on something act as if something unpleasant or upsetting is not as bad as it really is: he tried to put a good face on the financial picture. put one's face on informal apply makeup to one's face. save face retain respect; avoid humiliation: an outcome that allows them all to save face. set one's face against oppose or resist with determination: he had set his face against the idea. throw something back in someone's face reject something in a brusque or ungracious manner: she'd given him her trust and he'd thrown it back in her face. to one's face openly in one's presence: you're telling me to my face I'm a liar.PHRASAL VERBS face off chiefly North American take up an attitude of confrontation, especially at the start of a fight or game: close to a million soldiers face off in the desert. 
• Ice Hockey start or restart play with a face-off.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French, based on Latin facies ‘form, appearance, face.’
