fact 
BrE fakt, AmE fækt 

A.  noun 
① Countable事实 shìshí isn't it a fact that the firm is losing money? 公司正在亏损，这难道不是事实吗？ hard facts 事实真相 facts and figures 准确的信息 a report full of facts and figures 资料翔实的报告 to get one's facts right 把事实弄确切 to face (the) facts 面对现实 to know [something] for a fact 确切地知道某事 I know for a fact that she's involved in something illegal 我肯定她卷入了非法活动 the facts speak for themselves 事实足以说明一切 (and) that's a fact colloquial 事实就是这样 is that a fact? colloquial (expressing interest or disbelief) 是真的吗？ the facts of life ［尤指对儿童讲的] 性知识 
② Countable(existing situation, reality) 现实 xiànshí space travel is now a fact 太空旅行已成为现实 despite/owing to/apart from/in view of the fact that … 尽管/由于/除了/鉴于… the fact (of the matter) is that … 事实上是… a new car would be wonderful, but the fact is that we can't afford one 新车好是好，不过实际情况是我们买不起 after the fact 事后 a fact of life 生活的现实 
③ Uncountable(truth) 真实的事物 zhēnshí de shìwù fact and fiction 真实和虚构 this story is based on fact 这个故事以真人真事为基础 to accept [something] as fact 把某事当真 
④ Uncountable and countableLaw 事实 shìshí a question of fact 事实问题 
B.  as a matter of fact, in (actual) fact, in point of fact adverb phrase 
① (when adding detail) 确切地说 quèqiè de shuō [用以补充细节]we finished it yesterday, as a matter of fact 其实，这事我们昨天就完成了 I used to live in France; in fact, not far from where you're going 我以前住在法国；确切地说，离你要去的地方不远 
② (when reinforcing point) 事实上 shìshí shang [用以强调]they promised to pay and in fact that's what they did 他们答应付钱，事实上他们也这样做了 does it in fact matter very much? 它真的关系重大吗？ 
③ (when summarizing) 总而言之 zǒng ér yán zhī he's dishonest, and ignorant: quite unsuitable in fact 他这人既不诚实又无知：总之很不合适 
④ (when contrasting, contradicting) 实际上 shíjì shang [用以对比]I don't mind at all; in fact I'm delighted 我一点都不介意，实际上我很高兴 
fact 
fakt

▶noun a thing that is indisputably the case: she lacks political experience—a fact that becomes clear when she appears in public 
a body of fact. 
• (the fact that) used in discussing the significance of something that is the case: the real problem facing them is the fact that their funds are being cut. 
• (usually facts) a piece of information used as evidence or as part of a report or news article. 
• chiefly Law the truth about events as opposed to interpretation: there was a question of fact as to whether they had received the letter. 
PHRASES
before (or after) the fact before (or after) the committing of a crime: an accessory before the fact. a fact of life something that must be accepted as true and unchanging, even if it is unpleasant: it is a fact of life that young girls write horrible things about people in their diaries. facts and figures precise details. the facts of life information about sexual functions and practices, especially as given to children. the fact of the matter the truth. in (point of) fact used to emphasize the truth of an assertion, especially one contrary to what might be expected or what has been asserted: Aunt Madeline isn't in fact an aunt but a more distant relative.ORIGIN late 15th century: from Latin factum, neuter past participle of facere ‘do.’ The original sense was ‘an act or feat,’ later ‘bad deed, a crime,’ surviving in the phrase before (or after) the fact. The earliest of the current senses (‘truth, reality’) dates from the late 16th century.
