fade 
BrE feɪd, AmE feɪd 

A.  transitive verb 
① (make paler) «sun, washing, time» 使…褪色 shǐ… tuìshǎi ‹colours, curtains, clothes›
② Radio, Theatre 使…逐渐消失 shǐ… zhújiàn xiāoshī ‹conversation, lights›to fade one scene/colour into another; 使某一场景/颜色淡出，另一场景/颜色淡入 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (lose colour) «curtains, clothes» 褪色 tuìshǎi ; «colour» 变淡 biàndàn 
② figurative (grow faint, disappear) «hope, smile, memory» 逐渐消失 zhújiàn xiāoshī ; literal «light» 变暗 biàn'àn ; «applause, music» 渐低 jiàn dī to fade into [something]; 消失在某物中 to fade from sight or view; 从视线中消失 
③ (deteriorate, lose strength) «faculty, memory, beauty» 衰退 shuāituì ; «horse, runner» 失去后劲 shīqù hòujìn ; «flowers» 枯萎 kūwěi 
④ Cinema, Radio, Television «sound, music» 变弱 biànruò ; «scene, picture» 变暗淡 biàn àndàn PHRASAL VERBS fade away intransitive verb 
① (die down) «sound, music» 渐弱 jiàn ruò 
② figurative (decline physically) «person» 奄奄一息 yǎnyǎn yī xī old soldiers never die, they only fade away 老兵永远不死，他们只是凋零 fade in 
A.  intransitive verb «signal, music, lights» 渐弱 jiàn ruò ; «image, scene» 淡出 dànchū 
B.  transitive verb[fade something in], [fade in something] 使…渐强 shǐ… jiàn qiáng ‹music, dialogue, lighting›; 使…淡入 shǐ… dànrù ‹picture, scene›fade out 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (disappear) «signal, music, lights» 渐弱 jiàn ruò ; «image, scene» 淡出 dànchū 
② figurative «person» 淡出 dànchū ; «custom, political movement» 消失 xiāoshī to fade out (of the picture); 淡出公众视线 
B.  transitive verb[fade something out, fade out something] 使…渐弱 shǐ… jiàn ruò ‹music, dialogue, lighting›; 使…淡出 shǐ… dànchū ‹picture, scene›
fade 
fād

▶verb [no object]
1 gradually grow faint and disappear: the noise faded away 
figurative : hopes of peace had faded. 
• lose or cause to lose color or brightness: [no object] : the fair hair had faded to a dusty gray 
[with object] (usually as adjective faded) : faded jeans. 
• (of a flower) lose freshness and wither. 
• gradually become thin and weak, especially to the point of death. 
• (of a racehorse, runner, etc.) lose strength or drop back, especially after a promising start: she faded near the finish. 
• (of a radio signal) gradually lose intensity: the signal faded away. 
• (of a vehicle brake) become temporarily less efficient as a result of frictional heating.
2 [with adverbial] (with reference to film and television images) come or cause to come gradually into or out of view, or to merge into another shot: [no object] : fade into scenes of rooms strewn with festive remains 
[with object] : some shots have to be faded in. 
• (with reference to recorded sound) increase or decrease in volume or merge into another recording: [no object] : they let you edit the digital data, making it fade in and out 
[with object] : fade up natural sound.
3 Golf (of the ball) deviate to the right (or, for a left-handed golfer, the left), typically as a result of spin given to the ball. 
• [with object] (of a golfer) cause (the ball) to deviate: he had to fade the ball around a light pole. Compare with draw ( sense
5 of the verb).
4 [with object] North American informal (in craps) match the bet of (another player): Lovejoy faded him for twenty-five cents. 
▶noun
1 the process of becoming less bright: the sun can cause color-fade. 
• an act of causing a film or television picture to darken and disappear gradually: a fade to black would bring the sequence to a close. Compare with fade-out.
2 Golf a shot causing the ball to deviate to the right (or, for a left-handed golfer, the left), usually purposely. 
• American Football a pass thrown so that the ball descends directly over the receiver's shoulder, especially as they veer toward the sideline: shortly after receiving the snap, he threw a fade to Crabtree 
[as modifier] : he scores on a beautiful fade pass to the back of the end zone. 
PHRASES
do a fade informal run away: he would have done a fade if he had seen somebody.PHRASAL VERBS fade back American Football move back from the scrimmage line.DERIVATIVES fadeless 
ˈfādləs 
adjectiveORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘grow weak, waste away’; compare with fade away): from Old French fader, from fade ‘dull, insipid,’ probably based on a blend of Latin fatuus ‘silly, insipid’ and vapidus ‘vapid.’
