fail 
BrE feɪl, AmE feɪl 

A.  intransitive verb 
① (not succeed) 失败 shībài the treatment failed 治疗没有效果 to fail in [something]; 未能做到某事 to fail in one's duty 失职 they failed in an attempt to break the record 他们试图破纪录，但没能成功 
② (not pass exam) 不及格 bù jígé he failed in chemistry/his exams 他化学/考试不及格 
③ (stop working) «engine, system» 出故障 chū gùzhàng ; «heart, kidney» 衰竭 shuāijié his brakes failed as he was coming down the hill 他下山时刹车失灵了 the power failed throughout the area 整个地区都停电了 
④ (become weak) 衰退 shuāituì his health has been failing over the years 这些年来他的健康每况愈下 I want to finish this picture before the light fails 我想在天黑之前完成这幅画 
⑤ (be insufficient) 缺乏 quēfá the crops failed last year 去年庄稼歉收 the water supply failed during the drought 干旱期间供水不足 
⑥ (go bankrupt) 破产 pòchǎn several banks failed that year 那年有数家银行倒闭了 
B.  transitive verb 
① (let down) 使失望 shǐ shīwàng he felt he had failed his family 他感到辜负了家人 his courage failed him 他失去了勇气 my memory often fails me these days 近来我经常忘事 words fail me! 我不知道该怎么说！ 
② (not meet standard) 未通过 wèi tōngguò ‹exam, interview, test›; 未通过…的考试 wèi tōngguò… de kǎoshì ‹subject›; 评定…为不及格 píngdìng… wéi bù jígé ‹person›to fail French 法语考试不及格 the examiner failed all the candidates 这位考官给所有的考生都打了不及格 to fail a drugs test 没有通过药检 
③ (not complete, not do) 未能 wèinéng to fail to do [something]; 未能做某事 he failed to keep his word 他没有信守诺言 it never failed to irritate him that she was taller than he was 她比他高，这一直让他耿耿于怀 I fail to understand why he is so aggressive 我不明白他为何如此好斗 she cannot have failed to be aware of it 她不可能不知道这事 the patient's ulcer failed to respond to treatment 治疗对病人的溃疡不起作用 
C.  noun 
① School, University 不及格 bù jígé he got a pass in maths and a fail in chemistry 他数学及格了，但化学不及格 
② without fail 必定 bìdìng she writes every week, without fail 她每周都写，从不间断 I promise to come, without fail 我保证来，决不食言 
fail 
fāl

▶verb [no object]
1 be unsuccessful in achieving one's goal: he failed in his attempt to secure election 
[with infinitive] : they failed to be ranked in the top ten. 
• [with object] be unsuccessful in (an examination, test, or interview): she failed her finals. 
• [with object] (of a person or a commodity) be unable to meet the standards set by (a test of quality or eligibility): the player has failed a drug test. 
• [with object] judge (someone, especially in an examination) not to have passed.
2 neglect to do something: [with infinitive] : the firm failed to give adequate risk warnings. 
• [with infinitive] behave in a way contrary to hopes or expectations by not doing something: commuter chaos has again failed to materialize. 
• (cannot fail to be/do something) used to express a strong belief that something must be the case: you cannot fail to be deeply impressed. 
• (never fail to do something) used to indicate that something invariably happens: such comments never failed to annoy him. 
• [with object] desert or let down (someone): at the last moment her nerve failed her.
3 break down; cease to work well: a truck whose brakes had failed. 
• become weaker or of poorer quality; die away: the light began to fail 
(as adjective failing) : his failing health. 
• (especially of a rain or a crop or supply) be lacking or insufficient when needed or expected. 
• (of a business or a person) be obliged to cease trading because of lack of funds; become bankrupt. 
▶noun a grade that is not high enough to pass an examination or test. 
PHRASES
too big to fail (of a financial organization or other business) so important to the economy of a country that a government or central bank must take measures to prevent it from ceasing to trade or going bankrupt: he caused a stir earlier this month when he said that no company was too big to fail. without fail absolutely predictably; with no exception: he writes every week without fail.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French faillir (verb), faille (noun), based on Latin fallere ‘deceive.’ An earlier sense of the noun was ‘failure to do or perform a duty,’ surviving in the phrase without fail.
