fair
1 
BrE fɛː, AmE fɛr 

A.  adjective 
① (just, impartial) 公正的 gōngzhèng de a fair trial 公正的审判 she's scrupulously fair 她一丝不苟，秉公办事 she's fair to her employees 她公平对待员工 
② (reasonable) 合理的 hélǐ de a fair wage/question 合理的工资/恰当的问题 she wants her fair share 她想要她该得的那一份 to be fair (to them) or let's be fair (to them), they were acting in good faith 说句公道话，他们是出于好心 it's only fair that both sides should be heard 双方的说法都应该听听才对 fair enough colloquial (admitting sth. is reasonable) 有道理 (admitting sth. is acceptable) 可以 I can't come — fair enough 我不能来了──行 all this is fair enough, but where is it leading? 这些都很有道理，但目的是什么？ to give [somebody] a fair deal or a fair shake colloquial 给某人公平待遇 fair exchange is no robbery 公平交易绝非抢夺 it's a fair cop colloquial 这是罪有应得 to get a fair crack at or of the whip BrE colloquial 得到合理机会 fair dos or do's BrE colloquial 大家都要公平 to be fair game for [somebody] 是某人的抨击目标 she was fair game for the critics 她是评论家们的评论对象 by fair means or foul 不择手段 fair's fair colloquial 公平地说 they didn't give me the job, but fair's fair, they did interview me 他们没有给我这个工作，但实事求是地讲，他们确实给了我面试 (more than) one's fair share of [something] （超过）合理的数量 I've had my fair share of success in the past 过去我已经取得了应有的成功 she's had more than her fair share of problems 她遇到了太多的问题 
③ (reasonably good) 尚好的 shàng hǎo de I have a fair knowledge of French 我的法语知识还算可以 I'm afraid her school work is only fair 很遗憾，她的功课只是一般般 fair to middling 马马虎虎 
④ attributive (good, high, large) 相当 xiāngdāng of a fair size/length 相当大的/长的 to go at a fair pace 走得相当快 she was a fair way towards her goal 她很有希望成功 
⑤ (fine) 晴朗的 qínglǎng de ‹weather›the weather forecast was fair 天气预报是晴天 
⑥ Nautical 顺风的 shùnfēng de a fair wind 顺风 
⑦ (light-coloured) 浅色的 qiǎnsè de a fair complexion 白皙的肤色 he's fair (fair-skinned) 他皮肤白皙 (fair-haired) 他长着浅色头发 
⑧ archaic (beautiful) 美丽的 měilì de the fair sex dated humorous 女性 fair promises/words 花言巧语/恭维话 → faint 
A. 
③ 
B.  adverb 
① (according to rules) 按照规则 ànzhào guīzé to play fair 按规则行事 
② fair and square colloquial (honestly) 光明正大地 guāngmíng zhèngdà de (with absolute accuracy) 精确地 jīngquè de we won the match fair and square 我们光明正大地赢得了比赛 the blame rests fair and square on him 责任完全由他承担 
③ colloquial = fairly 
② 
fair
1 
fer

▶adjective
1 in accordance with the rules or standards; legitimate: the group has achieved fair and equal representation for all its members. 
• just or appropriate in the circumstances: to be fair, this subject poses special problems. 
• archaic (of a means or procedure) gentle; not violent. 
• Baseball (of a batted ball) within the field of play marked by the first and third baselines. 
• Baseball pertaining to the fair part of the field: the ball was hit into fair territory.
2 (of hair or complexion) light; blond. 
• (of a person) having a light complexion or blond hair.
3 considerable though not outstanding in size or amount: he did a fair bit of coaching. 
• moderately good though not outstandingly so: he believes he has a fair chance of success.
4 (of weather) fine and dry. 
• (of the wind) favorable: they set sail with a fair wind.
5 archaic beautiful: attractive: the fairest of her daughters. 
• (of words, a speech, or a promise) false, despite being initially attractive or pleasing; specious. 
▶adverb
1 without cheating or trying to achieve unjust advantage: no one could say he played fair.
2 [as submodifier] dialect to a high degree: she'll be fair delighted to see you. 
▶noun archaic a beautiful woman. 
▶verb [no object] dialect (of the weather) become fine: looks like it's fairing off some. 
PHRASES
all's fair in love and war proverb in certain highly charged situations, any method of achieving your objective is justifiable. by fair means or foul literary or humorous using whatever means are necessary: they were determined to ensure victory for themselves, by fair means or foul. fair and square honestly and straightforwardly: we won the match fair and square. a fair deal equitable treatment. fair dinkum Australian/NZ informal see dinkum. fair enough informal used to admit that something is reasonable or acceptable: “I can't come because I'm working late.” “Fair enough.” fair-to-middling slightly above average: she manages to capitalize on some fair-to-middling material. fair name dated a good reputation. the fair sex (also the fairer sex) dated or humorous women. fair's fair informal used to request just treatment or assert that an arrangement is just: Fair's fair—we were here first. for fair US informal, dated completely and finally: then we'd be rid of him for fair. in a fair way to do something dated having nearly done something, and likely to achieve it: he is in a fair way to get well. it's a fair cop British an admission that the speaker has been caught doing wrong and deserves punishment. no fair North American informal unfair (often used in or as a petulant protestation): no fair—we're the only kids in the whole school who don't get to watch TV on school nights.DERIVATIVES fairish 
ˈferiSH 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English fæger ‘pleasing, attractive,’ of Germanic origin, related to Norwegian vakker,‘beautiful.’
