fall 
BrE fɔːl, AmE fɔl 

A.  intransitive verb(past tense fell, past participle fallen) 
① (come down vertically) 落下 luòxia the vase fell and broke into a thousand pieces 花瓶掉下来摔得粉碎 the blow fell in the small of his back 那一拳打在他的腰背部 the axe has fallen on one of the company's subsidiaries figurative 公司的一家子公司歇业了 the rain was falling steadily 雨下个不停 in early autumn, the leaves begin to fall from or off the trees 初秋，树叶开始凋落 I fell out of bed last night 我昨晚从床上摔了下来 the handle of the suitcase fell off 手提箱的把手掉了 she fell into the river 她掉进了河里 
② (collapse) 倒下 dǎoxia many trees fell in the storm 在暴风雨中许多树都倒了 she fell on her face 她摔了个嘴啃泥 six wickets fell before lunch (in cricket) 午饭前有6个击球员被杀出局 the bigger you are, the harder you fall 人越高大，摔得越重 the sales director has left — did he fall or was he pushed? figurative 销售主管离职了──他是自己辞职的还是被解雇的？ he fell to or on his knees and begged for mercy 他跪下求饶 they fell into each other's arms 他们互相拥抱 she fell into the chair, exhausted 她筋疲力尽地跌坐在椅子上 
③ (move downwards) «sun» 下落 xiàluò ; «tide» 消退 xiāotuì ; «hands» 垂落 chuíluò his arms fell to his sides 他双臂下垂，放在身体两侧 the curtain fell Theatre 幕落了 
④ (hang down) 下垂 xiàchuí her hair fell over her shoulders 她的头发披在肩上 
⑤ (occur) 发生 fāshēng my birthday falls on a Wednesday 我的生日适逢星期三 Easter falls early this year 今年的复活节来得早 
⑥ (slope downward) «land, path» 向下倾斜 xiàng xià qīngxié the ground falls gently for several hundred metres 地面缓缓向下倾斜好几百米 
⑦ literary (perish in battle) 阵亡 zhènwáng 
⑧ Military, Politics (be captured) 失守 shīshǒu Troy fell to the Greeks 特洛伊城被希腊人攻陷 a number of Labour seats have fallen to the Conservatives 许多工党的席位落入了保守党的手中 
⑨ (be defeated) 被打败 bèi dǎbài ; (be removed) 下台 xiàtái the government fell after the revolution 政府在那次革命之后垮台了 
⑩ figurative (collapse) «defence, theory» 瓦解 wǎjiě ; «future, career» 垮掉 kuǎdiào to stand or fall on [something] 成败取决于某事物 the case for the defence stands or falls on this question 被告的理由成立与否取决于对这个问题的回答 
⑪ figurative (descend) «hush, night, fear» 降临 jiànglín ; «person, record, morale» 下降 xiàjiàng a sudden silence fell over or among the waiting crowd 等待的人群突然变得鸦雀无声 darkness falls quickly in the tropics 热带地区天黑得很快 great sadness fell upon them 他们感到悲痛欲绝 her spirits fell at the bad news 她听到坏消息后情绪低落 the band has fallen in popularity 这个乐队的人气下降了 she fell to third place 她的排名降至第三 
⑫ (be uttered) 被说出 bèi shuōchū not a word fell from his lips or mouth 他一声不吭 to let fall [something] or to let [something] fall; 透露某事 did he let fall any hints about what he wants for his birthday? 他暗示过他想要什么生日礼物吗？ 
⑬ figurative (land on) 落在 luòzài a ray of light fell across his bed 一束光线从他床上掠过 the stress falls on the first syllable 重音落在第一个音节上 my eye fell on a bloodstain on the carpet 我突然看到地毯上有一处血迹 → deaf 
A. 
② 
⑭ (decrease) 下降 xiàjiàng prices have fallen on the stock market 股市已经下跌 the sound of the siren rises and falls 警报器的声音时高时低 the value of the house has fallen by £20,000 这幢房子贬值了2万英镑 production fell to an all-time low last month 上个月的产量降至历史最低 don't let your speed fall below five miles per hour 别让你的车速低于每小时5英里 
⑮ (pass into specified state) 进入 jìnrù he fell under suspicion 他受到了怀疑 to fall ill or sick 生病 she fell pregnant last May BrE colloquial 她是5月份怀的孕 to fall silent or quiet 安静下来 the book fell open at a picture of a spider 书翻开在有蜘蛛插图的那一页 to fall to bits or pieces 变成碎片 my car is falling to pieces 我的车要散架了 their relationship has fallen to pieces figurative 他们的关系/婚姻已经破裂了 to fall into [something]; 陷入某种状态 I fell into a deep sleep 我陷入了沉睡 they fell into bad habits 他们养成了坏习惯 moral standards are falling into decay figurative 道德标准每况愈下 to fall from power 下台 xiàtái 
⑯ (move into specified place) 处于 chǔyú which category does this fall into? 这属于哪一类？ an act that falls in the grey area between attack and self-defence 介于攻击与自卫之间的行为 the lecture falls naturally into three parts 演讲自然地分为三个部分 to fall under [something]; 归于某事物之下 that falls under ‘any other business’ 那属于“其他事项” to fall outside/within [something]; 不在/在某事物的范围之内 the question of finance falls outside the scope of this inquiry 财务问题不在本次调查的范围之内 problems that fall within my area of responsibility 我责任范围内的问题 
⑰ Religion 堕落 duòluò to fall into temptation 受到诱惑而堕落 
B.  noun 
① (act or instance of falling) 落下 luòxia a heavy fall of snow 一场大雪 a fall of rocks had blocked the road 滚落的岩石堵住了路 winning or losing depends on the fall of the dice 输赢通过掷骰子来决定 the rise and fall of the tide 潮水的涨落 the fall of the curtain signalled the end of the show 落幕表示演出结束了 
② (uncontrolled descent) 摔倒 shuāidǎo to have a bad fall 重重地摔了一跤 he was injured in a fall from his horse 他从马背上掉下来受了伤 that was a nasty fall — are you all right? 这一跤摔得不轻──你还好吧？ 
③ (distance fallen) 下落距离 xiàluò jùlí a fall of
20 metres 20米的落差 
④ Sport (in wrestling) 双肩着地 shuāng jiān zháo dì (in judo) 体落 tǐluò 
⑤ (hang of fabric, hair) 下垂 xiàchuí 
⑥ (collapse, defeat) 失守 shīshǒu the fall of Troy 特洛伊城的沦陷 
⑦ (decline in power) (of person, president) 失势 shīshì (of government, regime) 垮台 kuǎtái (of empire, republic) 灭亡 mièwáng a fall in popularity 人气的下降 
⑧ (decrease) 下降 xiàjiàng a fall in prices 价格的下跌 a sharp fall in unemployment numbers 失业人数的急剧减少 a fall in value of £3,000 3,000英镑的贬值 
⑨ (lowering in pitch) 降低 jiàngdī the rise and fall of the melody 音调的升降 
⑩ (lapse into sin) 堕落 duòluò the Fall (of Man) 人类的堕落 his fall from grace 他的堕落 
⑪ AmE (autumn) 秋天 qiūtiān 
C.  falls noun plural (waterfall) 瀑布 pùbù the Niagara Falls 尼亚加拉大瀑布 PHRASAL VERBS fall about intransitive verb 
① BrE colloquial (be helpless with laughter) 捧腹大笑 pěngfù dàxiào she looked so funny: he just fell about (laughing or with laughter) 她看上去滑稽之极，让他笑得前仰后合 
② (move awkwardly) 踉踉跄跄地走 liàngliàngqiàngqiàng de zǒu fall apart intransitive verb 
① (break) «book, car» 散架 sǎnjià ; «house» 倒塌 dǎotā ; «suitcase» 破裂 pòliè 
② (disintegrate) «relationship» 破裂 pòliè ; «country, organization» 解体 jiětǐ ; «plan» 失败 shībài their marriage is falling apart 他们的婚姻岌岌可危 they couldn't raise the money, so the deal fell apart 他们没能筹到钱，所以生意告吹了 
③ colloquial (lose one's capacity to cope) 崩溃 bēngkuì he fell apart when his wife died 妻子死后他彻底垮了 fall away intransitive verb 
① (become detached) 掉落 diàoluò to fall away from [something]; 从某物上掉下来 the paint is beginning to fall away from the ceiling 油漆开始从天花板上剥落 
② (have slope) «land, path» 向下倾斜 xiàng xià qīngxié the field falls sharply away to the river 这块田在河边一带地势陡降 
③ (become fewer or less) 减少 jiǎnshǎo output fell away to an all-time low 产量降至历史最低水平 
④ (withdraw support) «supporters» 离弃 líqì his friends began to fall away 他的朋友开始和他疏远了 fall back intransitive verb 
① (move back) 后退 hòutuì the enemy fell back as our troops advanced 我军向前挺进，敌军向后撤退 she fell back in horror 她吓得直往后退 
② (lag behind) 落在后面 luòzài hòumian they fell back from the main group 他们落在大部队的后面 fall back on transitive verb[fall back on somebody/something] 求助于 qiúzhù yú your parents won't always be there to fall back on 你不可能总是依靠父母 at least he's got his savings to fall back on 至少他还有积蓄可赖以生活 they wanted me to do a computer course so that I'd have something to fall back on 他们希望我学习计算机课程，给自己多留一条出路 fall behind 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (move to a position behind others) 落在后面 luòzài hòumian to fall behind in the arms race 在军备竞赛中落后 
② (with payment) 拖欠 tuōqiàn (with work or other activity) 没有及时做 méiyǒu jíshí zuò I had to sit up studying all night so as not to fall behind 我不得不整晚熬夜学习，以免落下功课 to fall behind with [something]; 拖欠某物 to fall behind with the rent 拖欠租金 I've fallen behind with my correspondence 我积压了很多信没有回 
B.  transitive verb[fall behind somebody/something] 落在某人/某事物的后面 luòzài mǒu rén/mǒu shìwù de hòumian he has fallen behind his classmates in maths 他在数学方面落后于班上的其他同学 their wages have fallen behind (earnings in) the private sector 他们的工资比私营企业员工（的薪水）低 fall down intransitive verb 
① (fall accidentally) «person, animal» 摔倒 shuāidǎo ; «object» 掉落 diàoluò the poster has fallen down 海报已经脱落了 the tree fell down in the gale 这棵树被大风吹倒了 
② (collapse) 倒塌 dǎotā the tent fell down in the middle of the night 半夜里帐篷倒了 the house was falling down colloquial 房子快塌了 
③ figurative (fail) 失败 shībài his argument falls down on this point 这一点就是他的论据的不足之处 she fell down on music history 她的音乐史考砸了 fall for transitive verb[fall for somebody/something] colloquial 
① (fall in love with) 爱上 àishang they fell for each other instantly 他们一见倾心 
② (find attractive) 被…所吸引 bèi… suǒ xīyǐn ‹charm, looks, house›
③ (be tricked by) 对…信以为真 duì… xìn yǐ wéi zhēn he didn't fall for the trick 他没有中计 they fell for my story 他们听信了我的说法 fall in intransitive verb 
① (tumble in) 掉进去 diào jinqu the water's deep here, mind you don't fall in! 这里的水深，当心别掉下去！ 
② (give way) 塌陷 tāxiàn the roof fell in 屋顶塌了 
③ Military 站队 zhànduì you're late — fall in immediately! 你迟到了──立即入列！ the sergeant ordered his men to fall in 中士命令士兵集合 
④ (start walking next to) 跟着走 gēnzhe zǒu I fell in alongside or beside the procession 我在队伍旁边跟着走 fall in with transitive verb[fall in with somebody/something] 
① (meet) 遇见 yùjiàn (join) 加入 jiārù (become involved with) 开始与…有牵连 kāishǐ yǔ… yǒu qiānlián he fell in with bad company 他结交了一帮不三不四的人 
② (agree with) 同意 tóngyì to fall in with [somebody's] plan 赞成某人的计划 fall off intransitive verb 
① (decrease in quantity) 减少 jiǎnshǎo business is falling off 生意越来越清淡 production fell off drastically during the strike 罢工期间产量急剧下降 
② (deteriorate) «standard, quality» 下降 xiàjiàng fall on transitive verb[fall on somebody/something] 
① (attack) 袭击 xíjī 
② (seize) 扑向 pūxiàng ‹food, treasure›
③ (be borne by) «burden, cost» 由…负担 yóu… fùdān ‹person›the duty of caring for her fell on the eldest daughter 照顾她的任务落在大女儿的身上 the blame always falls on me 出了错总是归咎于我 it falls on the retailer to replace faulty goods 零售商有责任退换次品 fall out intransitive verb 
① 掉落 diàoluò his hair is starting to fall out 他的头发开始脱落 don't lean out of the window too far — you might fall out 别探出窗户太远──你可能会摔出去 she opened the book, and a faded photograph fell out 她翻开那本书，一张褪色的照片掉了出来 
② (quarrel) 争吵 zhēngchǎo we've fallen out 我们吵架了 to fall out with [somebody]; 和某人争吵 she's fallen out with her next-door neighbour 她与隔壁邻居吵了一架 to fall out over [something]; 为某事物争吵 they fell out over the issue of local government finance 他们为地方政府的财政问题发生了争吵 
③ Military 原地解散 yuándì jiěsàn fall out! 原地解散！ 
④ BrE (happen) 发生 fāshēng everything fell out as planned 一切都按计划进行 we were pleased with the way things fell out 我们对事情的进展感到满意 fall over 
A.  intransitive verb (fall down) 倒下 dǎoxia I tripped and fell over 我绊了一下摔倒了 the suit of armour fell over with a loud crash 那套盔甲轰然倒地 
B.  transitive verb[fall over something] 
① (stumble over) 被…绊倒 bèi… bàndǎo I fell over my own feet 我自己把自己绊倒了 
② to fall over oneself to do [something] figurative colloquial (be extremely keen) 迫不及待地做 pò bù jí dài de zuò (do everything within one's power) 不遗余力地做 bù yí yú lì de zuò to be falling over each other to do [something] 争先恐后地做某事 zhēng xiān kǒng hòu de zuò mǒu shì banks are falling over each other to lend people money 各家银行争着给人贷款 fall through intransitive verb 落空 luòkōng our plan fell through 我们的计划告吹了 the sale has fallen through 这笔买卖泡了汤 fall to 
A.  intransitive verb literary 开始 kāishǐ she fell to with gusto 她开始津津有味地吃起来 to fall to doing [something]; 开始做某事 he fell to brooding about the problem 他开始思考这个问题 
B.  transitive verb[fall to somebody] literary 该由…负责 gāi yóu… fùzé it fell to him or to his lot to organize the party 组织晚会的任务落在了他的肩上 
fall 
fôl

▶verb (past fell 
fel
; past participle fallen 
ˈfôlən
) [no object]
1 move downward, typically rapidly and freely without control, from a higher to a lower level: bombs could be seen falling from the planes 
(as adjective falling) : the power lines had been brought down by falling trees. 
• (fall off) become detached accidentally and drop to the ground: my sunglasses fell off and broke on the pavement. 
• hang down: hair that was allowed to fall to the shoulders. 
• (of land) slope downward; drop away: the land fell away in a steep bank. 
• (fall into) (of a river) flow or discharge itself into. 
• (of someone's eyes or glance) be directed downward. 
• (of someone's face) show dismay or disappointment by appearing to sag or droop: her face fell as she thought about her life with George. 
• occur, arrive, or become apparent as if by dropping suddenly: when night fell we managed to crawl back to our lines 
the information might fall into the wrong hands.
2 (of a person) lose one's balance and collapse: she fell down at school today. 
• throw oneself down, typically in order to worship or implore someone: they fell on their knees, rendering thanks to God. 
• (of a tree, building, or other structure) collapse to the ground: the house looked as if it were going to fall down at any moment. 
• (of a building or place) be captured or defeated: their mountain strongholds fell to enemy attack. 
• die in battle: an English leader who had fallen at the hands of the Danes. 
• archaic commit sin; yield to temptation: it is their husband's fault if wives do fall. 
• (of a government or leader) lose office. 
• (in sports) lose or be eliminated from play.
3 decrease in number, amount, intensity, or quality: in 1987 imports into Britain fell by
12 percent 
we're worried that standards are falling. 
• find a lower level; subside or abate: the water table in the Rift Valley fell. 
• (of a measuring instrument) show a lower reading: the barometer had fallen a further ten points.
4 pass into a specified state: many of the buildings fell into disrepair 
she fell pregnant. 
• (fall to doing something) begin to do something: he fell to musing about how it had happened. 
• be drawn accidentally into: you must not fall into this common error. 
• occur at a specified time: Mother's birthday fell on Flag Day. 
• be classified or ordered in the way specified: canals fall within the Minister's brief. 
▶noun
1 [usually in singular] an act of falling or collapsing; a sudden uncontrollable descent: his mother had a fall, hurting her leg as she alighted from a train. 
• a controlled act of falling, especially as a stunt or in martial arts. 
• Wrestling a move which pins the opponent's shoulders on the ground for a count of three. 
• a state of hanging or drooping downward: the fall of her hair. 
• a downward difference in height between parts of a surface: at the corner of the massif this fall is interrupted by other heights of considerable stature. 
• a sudden onset or arrival as if by dropping: the fall of darkness.
2 a thing that falls or has fallen: in October came the first thin fall of snow 
a rock fall. 
• (usually falls) a waterfall or cascade. 
• chiefly literary a downward turn in a melody: that strain again, it had a dying fall. 
• (falls) the parts or petals of a flower that bend downward, especially the outer perianth segments of an iris.
3 a decrease in size, number, rate, or level; a decline: a big fall in unemployment.
4 a loss of office: the fall of the government. 
• the loss of a city or fortified place during battle: the fall of Jerusalem. 
• a person's moral descent, typically through succumbing to temptation. 
• (the Fall or the Fall of Man) the lapse of humankind into a state of sin, ascribed in traditional Jewish and Christian theology to the disobedience of Adam and Eve as described in Genesis.
5 (also Fall) North American autumn. 
PHRASES
be riding (or heading) for a fall informal be acting in a reckless way that is likely to end in trouble or disaster: with your present attitude, you're riding for a fall. fall foul (or afoul) of come into conflict with and be undermined by: any commitment of resources is likely to fall foul of government cash limitations. fall in (or into) line conform with others or with accepted behavior. [with reference to military formation.] fall into place (of a series of events or facts) begin to make sense or cohere: once he knew what to look for, the theory fell quickly into place. fall on stony ground see stony. fall over oneself to do something informal be excessively eager to do something: critics and audiences fell over themselves to compliment him. fall prey to see prey. fall short (of) (of a missile) fail to reach its target. 
• figurative be deficient or inadequate; fail to reach a required goal: the total vote fell short of the required two-thirds majority.fall to pieces see fall apart . fall victim to see victim. take the fall North American informal receive blame or punishment, typically in the place of another person.PHRASAL VERBS fall apart (or to pieces) break up, come apart, or disintegrate: their marriage is likely to fall apart. 
• (of a person) lose one's capacity to cope: Angie fell to pieces because she had lost everything.fall back move or turn back; retreat. fall back on have recourse to when in difficulty: they normally fell back on one of three arguments. fall behind fail to keep up with one's competitors. 
• fail to meet a commitment to make a regular payment: borrowers falling behind with their mortgage payments. fall down be shown to be inadequate or false; fail: the deal fell down partly because there were a lot of unanswered questions. fall for informal
1 be captivated by; fall in love with.
2 be deceived by (something): he should have known better than to expect Duncan to fall for a cheap trick like that. fall in
1 take one's place in a military formation: the soldiers fell in by the side of the road.
2 (of a structure) collapse inward. fall in with
1 meet by chance and become involved with: he fell in with thieves.
2 act in accordance with (someone's ideas or suggestions); agree to: falling in with other people's views. fall on (or upon)
1 attack fiercely or unexpectedly: the army fell on the besiegers. 
• seize enthusiastically: she fell on the sandwiches as though she had not eaten in weeks.
2 (of someone's eyes or gaze) be directed toward: her gaze fell on the mud-stained coverlet.
3 (of a burden or duty) be borne or incurred by: the cost of tuition should not fall on the student.fall out
1 (of the hair, teeth, etc.) become detached and drop out.
2 have an argument: he had fallen out with his family.
3 leave one's place in a military formation, or on parade: the two policemen at the rear fell out of the formation.
4 happen; turn out: matters fell out as Stephen arranged. fall through come to nothing; fail: the project fell through due to lack of money. fall to (of a task) become the duty or responsibility of: it fell to me to write to Shephard. 
• (of property) revert to the ownership of.ORIGIN Old Englishfallan, feallan, of Germanic origin; the noun is partly from the verb, partly from Old Norse fall ‘downfall, sin.’
