fancy 
BrE ˈfansi, AmE ˈfænsi 

A.  transitive verb 
① BrE colloquial (wish to have) 想要 xiǎngyào (wish to do) 想做 xiǎng zuò what do you fancy for lunch? 午餐你想吃点什么？ do you fancy a drink? 想喝一杯吗？ do you fancy going to the cinema this evening? 今晚你想看电影吗？ she doesn't fancy the idea of being in charge 她不想当负责人 a little of what you fancy does you good dated 适当享受，好处多多 
② colloquial (find sexually attractive) 爱慕 àimù I rather fancy her 我看上她了 
③ (think) 认为 rènwéi I fancy it's going to rain today 我觉得今天会下雨 I fancy I've seen her somewhere before 我觉得以前在哪里见过她 
④ colloquial (have high opinion of) to fancy oneself; 自命不凡 zì mìng bùfán you fancy yourself in that hat, don't you? 你觉得自己戴那顶帽子很漂亮，是不是？ to fancy oneself as …; 自认为是… zì rènwéi shì… to fancy oneself as an expert on [something] 自命为某方面的专家 zìmìng wéi mǒu fāngmiàn de zhuānjiā to fancy oneself with [something]; 自认为擅长某事 zì rènwéi shàncháng mǒu shì she fancies herself with horses 她自认为擅长骑马 to fancy one's/[somebody's] chances BrE colloquial 认为自己/某人会成功 rènwéi zìjǐ/mǒu rén huì chénggōng he's hoping to get the job but I don't fancy his chances 他希望能得到那份工作，但我觉得他没戏 
⑤ in imperative [用于祈使句，表示吃惊或难以置信等]fancy! they had nothing to eat for six days! 真想不到！他们有6天没吃东西！ he's never been to London — fancy that! 他从没去过伦敦──真是不可思议！ fancy him being a murderer! 他居然是个杀人犯！ fancy meeting you here! 真没想到在这儿遇到你！ 
⑥ colloquial (regard as winner) 认为…会赢 rènwéi… huì yíng which horse do you fancy in the next race? 下一场比赛你认为哪匹马会赢？ I fancy him to win the tournament 我认为他会赢得锦标赛 
B.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(whim) 一时的念头 yīshí de niàntou a passing fancy 心血来潮 as or whenever the fancy takes [somebody]; 只要某人乐意 I just go where the fancy takes me 我想去哪里就去哪里 he only paints when the fancy takes him 他只在想画画时才动笔 to take a fancy to [something]; 一时兴起想做某事 
② Uncountable and countable(liking, desire) 一时的喜爱 yīshí de xǐ'ài to catch or take [somebody's] fancy; 吸引某人 the only thing that took my fancy at the auction was an antique writing desk 拍卖会上我唯一中意的是一张古董写字桌 they can do whatever takes their fancy with the money 这笔钱他们可以想怎么花就怎么花 to take a fancy to [something]/doing [something]; 喜欢上某事物/做某事 to take a fancy to [somebody]; 喜欢上某人 he seems to have taken quite a fancy to your sister 他似乎看上你妹妹了 he gave the job to a young man who had taken his fancy 他把工作给了一个博得他好感的年轻人 to have a fancy for [something]; 想要某物 she has a fancy for antique jewellery 她喜欢古董珠宝 
③ Uncountableliterary (imagination) 想象 xiǎngxiàng (faculty of imagination) 想象力 xiǎngxiànglì is it fact or fancy? 这是事实还是幻想？ he paints whatever his fancy suggests 他想到什么就画什么 
④ Countable(supposed thing) 想象的事物 xiǎngxiàng de shìwù did I really see it, or was it only a fancy? 我是真的看到了它，还是只是幻觉？ I had a fancy that something was going to go wrong 我隐约预感到，有什么事要出岔子 I have a fancy that he said he would be late tonight 我依稀记得他说过今晚会迟到 
⑤ Countable(cake) 花色小蛋糕 huāsè xiǎo dàngāo 
C.  adjective 
① (ornate) 有精美装饰的 yǒu jīngměi zhuāngshì de a fancy hat 别致的帽子 fancy cakes 花式蛋糕 fancy patterns 精美的图案 it's too fancy for my liking 它太花哨了，我不喜欢 
② (elaborate) 高级的 gāojí de ‹food, drink›; figurative 花言巧语的 huā yán qiǎo yǔ de ‹excuse, explanation›fancy foreign food pejorative 高档外国食品 what do you want for lunch? — nothing fancy: a cheese sandwich will do 午饭你想吃点什么？──简单点，来个奶酪三明治就行了 the wedding cake was very fancy 婚礼蛋糕做得非常精美 
③ often pejorative colloquial (extravagant, pretentious) 奢华的 shēhuá de a fancy house 豪宅 a fancy restaurant 高档餐厅 why did you have to give the child such a fancy name? 你干吗非要给孩子起这么个怪名字？ 
④ colloquial pejorative (expensive) 昂贵的 ángguì de ‹price›
⑤ pejorative (high-flown) 不切实际的 bù qiè shíjì de ‹idea›
⑥ colloquial (sophisticated) 复杂的 fùzá de ‹gadget, course, footwork›
⑦ AmE (high-quality) 优质的 yōuzhì de ‹foodstuffs, groceries›
⑧ Zoology 珍奇的 zhēnqí de ‹animal, bird, plant›
fancy 
▶verb
1 she fancied him. See like1 (sense 1).
2 I fancied I could see lights: think, imagine, believe, be of the opinion, be under the impression; reckon.
▶adjective fancy clothes: elaborate, ornate, ornamental, decorative, adorned, embellished, intricate; ostentatious, showy, flamboyant; luxurious, lavish, extravagant, expensive; informal flashy, jazzy, ritzy, snazzy, posh, classy; fancy-schmancy. ANTONYMS plain.
▶noun she took a fancy to you: liking, taste, inclination; urge, wish, whim, impulse, notion, whimsy, hankering, craving; informal yen, itch.
