far 
BrE fɑː, AmE fɑr 

A.  adverb(comparative form farther or further, superlative form farthest or furthest) 
① (in distance) 远 yuǎn far away or off; 在远处 far and wide 到处 to come from far and wide 远道而来 as far apart as … 像…这样相距遥远的 to look down at the traffic far below 远远地看下方的车流 to go far into the jungle 进入丛林深处 as far as the eye can see 极目所及 far be it from me to do that 我决不会做某事 to go far (be useful, extend) 足够 (become successful) 成功 this food won't go very far 这点食物不够吃的 she will go far 她会有出息的 
② (in time) 久远 jiǔyuǎn far away or off; 很遥远 peace seems very far away or off 和平看起来遥遥无期 to look far ahead 展望遥远的未来 as far back as 1985 早在1985年 I can't plan far beyond next month 我没法计划下个月之后太远的事 to work far into the night 工作到深夜 to see far into the past/future 看到遥远的过去/将来 he's not far off 70 他快到70岁了 → few 
A. 
① 
③ (to a great degree, very much) 非常 fēicháng far too cold/busy/much; 太冷/太忙/太多 far faster/better/worse; 快/好/差得多 not to be (too) far out or off or wrong colloquial «opinion, guess, calculation» 八九不离十 far gone colloquial (ill) 奄奄一息的 (drunk) 烂醉如泥的 I wouldn't trust him very far 我不太信任他 to be far ahead 遥遥领先 
④ (expressing specific degree, progress) [到某种程度]as or so far as possible; 尽可能 as or so far as [somebody] can; 尽某人所能 as or so far as [somebody] knows/can remember/can foresee 就某人所知/所能记得/所能预见 as or so far as [somebody] can see; 依某人看 as or so far as [somebody] is concerned (in sb.'s opinion) 依某人所见 as or so far as [somebody]/[something] is concerned or goes (as regards sb. or sth.) 就某人/某事物而言 as or so far as it goes 在有限程度上 how far gone or along AmE is she (in her pregnancy)? 她怀孕多久了？ how far is it possible to …? …的可能性有多大？ how far have you got with that report? 你那份报告写得怎么样了？ I read as far as the third chapter 我读到了第三章 it's a good plan as far as it goes, but … 这计划本身还算不错，不过… 
⑤ (to extreme degree) 过分地 guòfèn de to go so far as to do [something]; 竟然做某事 to go too far 做得过分 to go so far as to apologize 甚至都赔礼道歉 I wouldn't go so far as to say that 我倒不至于那样说 she took or carried the joke too far 她这玩笑开得太过火了 
B.  adjectiveattributive (comparative form farther or further, superlative form farthest or furthest) 
① (remote in space) 遥远的 yáoyuǎn de the far north of Canada 加拿大的最北端 the far right of the photograph 照片最右边 to be a far cry from [somebody]/[something] figurative 与某人/某事物截然不同 
② (remote in time) 久远的 jiǔyuǎn de the far future 遥远的未来 
③ (more distant, other) 较远的 jiào yuǎn de ‹side, shore, bank›at the far end of the room 在房间的那一头 a table in the far corner 对面角落的桌子 
④ Politics 极端的 jíduān de the far right/left 极右翼/极左翼 
C.  by far adverb phrase (with comparative) …得多 … de duō (with superlative) 最… zuì… she's prettier by far than her sister 她比她妹妹漂亮得多 it's by far the nicest/the most expensive 它是最好的/最贵的 by far the quickest way 最便捷的路径 
D.  far and away adverb phrase 毫无疑问地 háo wú yíwèn de she's far and away the better candidate 她无疑是更好的候选人 
E.  far from preposition phrase 完全不 wánquán bù to be far from satisfied/certain 根本不满意/毫无把握 he's far from stupid 他一点都不笨 far from complaining, I am very pleased 我没有抱怨，相反却很高兴 far from it! colloquial 完全相反！ are you angry? — far from it! 你生气吗？──一点都不！ 
F.  so far adverb phrase 
① (up till now) 到目前为止 dào mùqián wéizhǐ she's only written one book so far 她迄今只写了一本书 so far so good 到目前为止，一切还算顺利 
② (to a certain extent) 到某一程度 dào mǒu yī chéngdù you can only trust him so far 你只能信任他到这个程度 
G.  thus far adverb phrase formal 到现在为止 dào xiànzài wéizhǐ thus far we don't have any information 我们至今没有任何信息 
far 
fär

▶adverb (farther 
ˈfärT͟Hər
, farthest 
ˈfärT͟Həst
or further 
ˈfərT͟Hər
, furthest 
ˈfərT͟Həst
)
1 [often with adverbial] at, to, or by a great distance (used to indicate the extent to which one thing is distant from another): it was not too far away 
the mountains far in the distance glowed in the sun.
2 over a large expanse of space or time: he had not traveled far 
figurative : that's the reason why we have come so far and done as well as we have.
3 by a great deal: he is able to function far better than usual 
the reality has fallen far short of early expectations. 
▶adjective [attributive] situated at a great distance in space or time: the far reaches of the universe. 
• more distant than another object of the same kind: he was standing in the far corner. 
• distant from a point seen as central; extreme: she was brought up in the far north of Scotland 
the largest electoral success for the far right since the war. 
PHRASES
as far as for as great a distance as: the river stretched away as far as he could see. 
• for a great enough distance to reach: I decided to walk as far as the village. 
• to the extent that: as far as I am concerned, it is no big deal. be a far cry from be very different from: the hotel's royal suite is a far cry from the poverty of his home country. by far by a great amount: this was by far the largest city in the area. far and away by a great amount: he is far and away the most accomplished player. far and near (also near and far) everywhere: they came from far and near to New York City. far and wide over a large area: the high plains where bison roamed far and wide. far be it from me to used to express reluctance, especially to do something that one thinks may be resented: far be it from me to speculate on his reasons. far from very different from being; tending to the opposite of: conditions were far from satisfactory. far gone in a bad or worsening state, especially so as to be beyond recovery: a few frames from the original film were too far gone to salvage. 
• advanced in time: the legislative session is too far gone for the lengthy hearings needed to pass the bill. go far
1 achieve a great deal: he was the bright one, and everyone was sure he would go far.
2 contribute greatly: a book that goes far toward bridging the gap.
3 be worth or amount to much: the money would not go far at this year's prices. go so far as to do something do something regarded as extreme: surely they wouldn't go so far as to break in? go too far exceed the limits of what is reasonable or acceptable. how far
1 used to ask how great a distance is: they wanted to know how far he could travel.
2 to what extent: he was not sure how far she was committed. so far
1 to a certain limited extent: the commitment to free trade goes only so far.
2 (of a trend that seems likely to continue) up to this time: we've only had one honest man so far. (in) so far as to the extent that: it was a windless storm so far as blizzards go. so far, so good progress has been satisfactory up to now: “How's the job going?” “So far, so good.”ORIGIN Old English feorr; from an Indo-European root shared by Sanskrit para and Greek pera ‘further.’
