fast
1 
BrE fɑːst, AmE fæst 

A.  adjective 
① (speedy) 快的 kuài de a fast car 速度快的汽车 a fast horse 快马 a fast mover figurative colloquial 动作快的人 fast work 迅速完成的工作 a fast worker literal 做事麻利的人 figurative ［爱情关系中] 易受青睐的人 yì shòu qīnglài de rén he's a fast talker colloquial 他能说会道 to pull a fast one (on [somebody]) colloquial 欺骗（某人） 
② (happening quickly) 迅速发生的 xùnsù fāshēng de a fast trip to Paris 匆促的巴黎之旅 
③ (allowing quick movement) 可供快速运动的 kě gōng kuàisù yùndòng de a fast road/pitch 快车道/平整的球场 a fast line Railways 快车 
④ predicative (ahead of time) «clock, watch» 走得快的 zǒu de kuài de to be ten minutes fast 快了十分钟 
⑤ Photography 感光快的 gǎnguāng kuài de ‹film›fast exposure 快速曝光 
⑥ pejorative (immoral) 放荡的 fàngdàng de to lead a fast life 过放荡不羁的生活 a fast woman 荡妇 
⑦ predicative (fixed, attached) 牢固的 láogù de the post has to be fast in the ground 柱子必须牢牢固定在地上 to make the boat fast 把船系牢 
⑧ attributive literary (loyal) 可靠的 kěkào de ‹friend›they formed a fast friendship 他们结下了牢不可破的友谊 
⑨ (permanent) 不褪色的 bù tuìshǎi de ‹dye, colour›
B.  adverb 
① (rapidly) 快速 kuàisù don't drive so fast! 别把车开得这么快！ she ran off as fast as her legs could carry her 她拼命跑走了 her heart beat faster 她的心跳加快了 education is fast becoming a luxury 教育不久就要成为一种奢侈品了 to play fast and loose (with [somebody]/[something]) 玩弄（某人/某物） 
② (firmly) 牢固地 láogù de the boat was stuck fast in the mud 船深陷在淤泥里动弹不得 the door was shut fast 门紧闭着 to be fast asleep 沉睡 to hold fast to [something] literal 抓紧某物 figurative 坚持某事 jiānchí mǒu shì to stand fast literal 屹立不动 figurative 不让步 bù ràngbù to stand fast by [somebody]/[something] 坚定不移地支持某人/某事物 
③ (ahead) 快于标准时间 kuài yú biāozhǔn shíjiān that clock is running fast 那钟快了 
④ archaic fast by 就在…旁边 jiù zài… pángbiān fast by the tower 就在塔楼旁边 jiù zài tǎlóu pángbiān 
fast
1 
fast

▶adjective
1 moving or capable of moving at high speed: a fast and powerful car. 
• performed or taking place at high speed; taking only a short time: the journey was fast and enjoyable. 
• performing or able to perform a particular type of action quickly: a fast reader. 
• allowing people or things to move at high speed: a wide, fast road. 
• (of a playing field) likely to make the ball bounce or run quickly or to allow competitors to reach a high speed.
2 [predicative or as complement] (of a clock or watch) showing a time ahead of the correct time: I keep my watch fifteen minutes fast.
3 firmly fixed or attached: he made a rope fast to each corner. 
• (of friends) close and loyal. 
• (of a dye) not fading in light or when washed.
4 Photography (of a film) needing only a short exposure. 
• (of a lens) having a large aperture and therefore allowing short exposure times.
5 (of a person or lifestyle) engaging in or involving exciting or shocking activities: the fast life she led in London. 
▶adverb
1 at high speed: he was driving too fast. 
• within a short time: they think they're going to get rich fast.
2 so as to be hard to move; firmly or securely: the ship was held fast by the anchor chain. 
• (of someone or something sleeping) so as to be hard to wake: they were too fast asleep to reply. 
PHRASES
pull a fast one informal try to gain an unfair advantage: Joey pulled a fast one on us.ORIGIN Old English fæst ‘firmly fixed, steadfast’ and fæste ‘firmly, securely’ In Middle English the adverb developed the senses ‘strongly, vigorously’ (compare with run hard), and ‘close, immediate’ (just surviving in the archaic and poetic fast by; compare with hard by), hence ‘closely, immediately’ and ‘quickly’; the idea of rapid movement was then reflected in adjectival use.
