fat 
BrE fat, AmE fæt 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(in diet, on body) 脂肪 zhīfáng the ham had too much fat on it 这块火腿肥肉太多 excess body fat 多余的体内脂肪 foods which are low in fat 低脂食物 the fat's in the fire 要惹麻烦了 to live off the fat of the land 生活奢侈 
② Uncountable and countableCulinary 食用油 shíyòngyóu vegetable fat(s) 植物油 pork fat 猪油 
B.  adjective 
① (overweight) 肥胖的 féipàng de to get fat 长胖 fat little legs 胖胖的小腿儿 you won't grow very fat on that salary figurative colloquial 那点薪水算不了什么 
② (fatty) 肥的 féi de fat meat 肥肉 
③ (full, swollen) 圆鼓鼓的 yuángǔgǔ de a big fat apple 又大又圆的苹果 a fat wallet 鼓鼓囊囊的钱包 a fat volume of verse 厚厚的一册诗集 
④ (substantial) 大量的 dàliàng de to make a fat profit 获得暴利 a nice fat cheque 大额支票 a fat job/salary 肥缺/丰厚的薪水 
⑤ colloquial ironic (not much) 算不上的 suànbushang de a fat chance he's got of escaping! 他几乎不可能逃跑！ a fat lot of good/use 一点好处也没有/毫无用处 a fat lot of good that did! 那样一点好处也没有！ 
⑥ literary (fertile) 肥沃的 féiwò de ‹land›; 丰收的 fēngshōu de ‹year›
fat 
fat

▶noun a natural oily or greasy substance occurring in animal bodies, especially when deposited as a layer under the skin or around certain organs. 
• a fatty substance made from animal or plant products, used in cooking. 
• the presence of excess fat in a person or animal, causing them to appear corpulent: he was a tall man, running to fat. 
• Chemistry any of a group of natural esters of glycerol and various fatty acids, which are solid at room temperature and are the main constituents of animal and vegetable fat. Compare with oil. 
▶adjective (fatter, fattest) (of a person or animal) having a large amount of excess flesh: the driver was a fat, wheezing man. 
• (of an animal bred for food) made plump for slaughter. 
• containing much fat: fat bacon. 
• large in bulk or circumference: a fat cigarette. 
• informal (of an asset or opportunity) financially substantial or desirable: a fat profit 
fat motion picture deals. 
• informal used ironically to express the belief that there is none or very little of something: fat chance she had of influencing him 
a fat lot of good that'll do him. 
• (of coal) containing a high proportion of volatile oils. 
• (of wood) containing a high proportion of resin: fat pine. 
▶verb (fats, fatting, fatted) archaic make or become fat: [with object] : numbers of black cattle are fatted here 
[no object] : the hogs have been fatting 
(as adjective fatted) : a fatted duck. 
PHRASES
the fat is in the fire something has happened that will surely lead to an unpleasant result or angry reaction. kill the fatted calf produce one's best food to celebrate, especially at a prodigal's return. [with biblical allusion to Luke 15.] live off (or on) the fat of the land have the best of everything.DERIVATIVES fatless 
ˈfatləs 
adjective. fatly 
ˈfatlē 
adverb. fattish 
ˈfadiSH 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English fǣtt ‘well fed, plump,’ also ‘fatty, oily.’
