fault 
BrE fɔːlt, fɒlt, AmE fɔlt 

A.  noun 
① (defect) 缺点 quēdiǎn for all his faults, he is very likeable 尽管他有很多缺点，还是非常讨人喜欢 a structural/an electrical fault 结构缺陷/电路故障 to a fault 过分地 she is generous to a fault 她过分慷慨 
② (responsibility, mistake) 过错 guòcuò it's her fault that we're late 我们迟到都怪她 it happened through no fault of mine 发生这事错不在我 to find fault with [somebody]/[something]; 找某人/某事物的错 you're always finding fault 你总是找岔子 to be at fault (in doing [something]); （做某事）有过错 my memory was at fault 我记错了 you were at fault in leaving it unlocked 你没把它锁上是有责任的 
③ Sport (in tennis) 发球失误 fāqiú shīwù to serve a (double) fault （两次）发球失误 
④ Geology 断层 duàncéng 
B.  transitive verb 挑…的错 tiāo… de cuò I couldn't fault his performance 我认为他的表现无可挑剔 you can't fault him for being late — it was the traffic 你不能指责他迟到──那是交通拥堵的原因 
fault 
fôlt

▶noun
1 an unattractive or unsatisfactory feature, especially in a piece of work or in a person's character: my worst fault is impatience. 
• a break or other defect in an electrical circuit or piece of machinery: a fire caused by an electrical fault. 
• a misguided or dangerous action or habit: it has been the great fault of our politicians that they have all wanted to do something. 
• (in tennis and similar games) a service of the ball not in accordance with the rules. 
• (usually faults) (in show jumping) a penalty point imposed for an error.
2 responsibility for an accident or misfortune: an ordinary man thrust into peril through no fault of his own 
it was his fault she had died.
3 Geology an extended break in a body of rock, marked by the relative displacement and discontinuity of strata on either side of a particular surface. 
▶verb [with object]
1 criticize for inadequacy or mistakes: her colleagues and superiors could not fault her dedication to the job 
you cannot fault him for the professionalism of his approach. 
• [no object] archaic do wrong: the people of Caesarea faulted greatly when they called King Herod a god.
2 (be faulted) Geology (of a rock formation) be broken by a fault or faults: rift valleys where the crust has been stretched and faulted 
(as noun faulting) : a complex pattern of faulting. 
PHRASES
at fault
1 responsible for an undesirable situation or event; in the wrong: we recover compensation from the person at fault.
2 mistaken or defective: he suspected that his calculator was at fault. find fault make an adverse criticism or objection, sometimes unfairly or destructively: he finds fault with everything I do. — to a fault (of someone who displays a particular commendable quality) to an extent verging on excess: you're kind, caring and generous to a fault.ORIGIN Middle English faut(e) ‘lack, failing,’ from Old French, based on Latin fallere ‘deceive.’ The -l- was added (in French and English) in the 15th century to conform with the Latin word, but did not become standard in English until the 17th century, remaining silent in pronunciation until well into the 18th.
