fear 
BrE fɪə, AmE ˈfɪr 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(dread, fright) 害怕 hàipà to show no fear 毫无惧色 to be unable to speak for or from fear 吓得说不出话来 to have a fear of heights 恐高 have no fear! literary or humorous 别怕！ he went about in fear and trembling 他战战兢兢地四处走动 without fear or favour 不偏不倚地 for fear of or that …; 唯恐… she hid away for fear of being punished or punishment 她因害怕受罚而躲起来了 she said nothing, for fear that he would be angry 她什么也没说，怕他生气 to live or go in fear of one's life 一直害怕自己有生命危险 
② Countable(worry, apprehension) 担忧 dānyōu to have fear for the future 对未来忧心忡忡 
③ Uncountable(reverent awe) 敬畏 jìngwèi to put the fear of God into [somebody] 恐吓某人 
④ Uncountable(possibility) 可能性 kěnéngxìng there's not much fear of her getting married soon 她不太可能很快就结婚 no fear! colloquial 绝不！ 
B.  transitive verb 
① (be afraid of) 害怕 hàipà to fear death 怕死 he's a man to be feared 他是个让人畏惧的人 to fear to do [something]; 害怕做某事 he feared to speak in her presence 在她面前他不敢说话 → angel 
① 
② (be worried about) 担忧 dānyōu I fear (that) she may be dead 我担心她可能已经死了 we fear the worst 我们担心会发生最坏的情况 she fears our getting involved 她担心我们受到牵连 
③ (think) 恐怕 kǒngpà is there any hope of their survival? — I fear not 他们还有幸存的希望吗？──恐怕没有了 is she seriously ill? — I fear so 她病得很重吗？──我想是的 you will be disappointed, I fear 恐怕你会失望 
④ (revere) 敬畏 jìngwèi ‹God, deity›
C.  intransitive verb formal 担忧 dānyōu to fear for [somebody]/[something]; 为某人/某事物担心 I fear for her health/safety 我担心她的健康/安全 never fear! colloquial 别怕！ 
fear 
ˈfir

▶noun an unpleasant emotion caused by the belief that someone or something is dangerous, likely to cause pain, or a threat: drivers are threatening to quit their jobs in fear after a cabby's murder 
fear of increasing unemployment 
he is prey to irrational fears. 
• archaic a mixed feeling of dread and reverence: the love and fear of God. 
• (fear for) a feeling of anxiety concerning the outcome of something or the safety and well-being of someone: police launched a search for the family amid fears for their safety. 
• the likelihood of something unwelcome happening: she could observe the other guests without too much fear of attracting attention. 
▶verb [with object] be afraid of (someone or something) as likely to be dangerous, painful, or threatening: he said he didn't care about life so why should he fear death? 
[with clause] : farmers fear that they will lose business. 
• [no object] (fear for) feel anxiety or apprehension on behalf of: I fear for the city with this madman let loose in it. 
• [with infinitive] avoid or put off doing something because one is afraid: they aim to make war so horrific that potential aggressors will fear to resort to it. 
• used to express regret or apology: I'll buy her book, though not, I fear, the hardback version. 
• archaic regard (God) with reverence and awe. 
PHRASES
for fear of (or that) to avoid the risk of (or that): no one dared refuse the order for fear of losing their job.never fear used to reassure someone: we shall meet again, never fear. put the fear of God in (or into) someone cause someone to be very frightened. without fear or favor impartially: make all your decisions without fear or favor.ORIGIN Old English fǣr ‘calamity, danger,’ fǣran ‘frighten,’ also ‘revere.’
