feature 
BrE ˈfiːtʃə, AmE ˈfitʃər 

A.  noun 
① (distinctive characteristic) 特征 tèzhēng 
② (aspect) 方面 fāngmiàn to have no redeeming features 没有可取之处 
③ (of face) 面部特征 miànbù tèzhēng with sharp features 五官轮廓分明 with coarse features 面容粗犷 
④ (of product) 附加部件 fùjiā bùjiàn built-in safety features 内置的安全部件 
⑤ Busn (special attraction) 特色商品 tèsè shāngpǐn 
⑥ Cinema (film) 正片 zhèngpiàn 
⑦ Journalism (article) 特写 tèxiě she does a feature in the Times 她在《泰晤士报》撰写专题文章 
⑧ Television, Radio 专题节目 zhuāntí jiémù 
B.  transitive verb 
① (present) 突出介绍 tūchū jièshào ‹article, interview›; 由…主唱 yóu… zhǔchàng ‹singer, group›; 以…为主打 yǐ… wéi zhǔdǎ ‹song›; 由…主演 yóu… zhǔyǎn ‹actor›
② (have as a feature) «machine, car» 以…为特色 yǐ… wéi tèsè ‹facility›this model features several extras 这个型号有好几个选配件 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (figure) «item, dish» 占据重要位置 zhànjù zhòngyào wèizhi to feature in [something]; 在某事物中起重要作用 several well-known names feature on the list 名单上有好几个著名人物 
② Television, Cinema (perform) 出演主角 chūyǎn zhǔjué to feature in a new movie 在一部新片中担任主角 
feature 
ˈfēCHər

▶noun
1 a distinctive attribute or aspect of something: safety features like dual air bags. 
• (usually features) a part of the face, such as the mouth or eyes, making a significant contribution to its overall appearance. 
• Linguistics a distinctive characteristic of a linguistic unit, especially a speech sound or vocabulary item, that serves to distinguish it from others of the same type.
2 a newspaper or magazine article or a broadcast program devoted to the treatment of a particular topic, typically at length: a feature on Detroit's downtown fishery. 
• (also feature film) a full-length film intended as the main item in a movie theater program. 
▶verb [with object] have as a prominent attribute or aspect: the hotel features a large lounge, a sauna, and a coin-operated solarium. 
• have as an important actor or participant: the film featured Glenn Miller and his Orchestra. 
• [no object] (feature in) be a significant characteristic of or take an important part in: his later paintings feature prominently in the exhibition. ORIGIN late Middle English (originally denoting the form or proportions of the body, or a physical feature): from Old French faiture ‘form,’ from Latin factura (see facture) .
