feed 
BrE fiːd, AmE fid 

A.  transitive verb(past tense, past participle fed) 
① (supply with food) 给…食物 gěi… shíwù to feed a dog 喂狗 to feed a large family/an army 养活一大家人/一支军队 I feed the children on baked beans 我给孩子们吃烘豆 the child can feed himself with a spoon 这孩子能用勺子自己吃东西了 → bite 
A. 
① 
② (give as food) 用…喂 yòng… wèi ‹food›; 喂 wèi ‹person, animal›she was feeding bread to the birds 她在用面包喂鸟 to feed the baby some more apple 给婴儿再喂一点苹果 
③ (supply) 供给 gōngjǐ the lake is fed by several rivers 这湖是由几条河汇流而成的 how is the printer fed with paper? 这台打印机怎么进纸？ a spy who fed secrets to his government 一个为政府提供秘密情报的间谍 to feed coins into a meter 把硬币投入停车计时收费器 
④ figurative (satisfy) 满足 mǎnzú (fuel) 助长 zhùzhǎng to feed a drug habit 满足毒瘾 this letter merely fed the flame of his passion literary 这封信只是让他的激情更加高涨 
⑤ Sport 传球给 chuánqiú gěi ‹player›; 传 chuán ‹balls›he fed the forwards a flow of passes 他给前锋接连传了好几个球 
⑥ Theatre colloquial 给…提词 gěi… tící ‹actor›
B.  intransitive verb (past tense, past participle fed) (take nourishment) 进食 jìnshí she had the infant feeding at her breast 她给婴儿哺乳 to feed on or off [something]; literal 以某物为食 figurative 从某事物中得到滋养 cóng mǒu shìwù zhōng dédào zīyǎng the horses usually feed on oats 这些马通常以燕麦为食 vanity feeds on flattery 奉承助长虚荣 
C.  noun 
① (meal for babies or animals) 一餐 yī cān the baby was having five feeds a day 这个婴儿那时一天要喂5次 to give the horse a feed of oats 给马喂一次燕麦 
② Agriculture 饲料 sìliào 
③ colloquial (hearty meal) 丰盛的一餐 fēngshèng de yī cān to have a good feed 饱餐一顿 
④ Technology (material) 进料 jìnliào (pipe, channel) 进料装置 jìnliào zhuāngzhì the petrol feed is blocked 进油管堵住了 sheet paper feed Computing 进纸装置 
⑤ Theatre colloquial (prompt) 提词 tící (actor) 提词员 tícíyuán PHRASAL VERBS feed back transitive verb[feed something back], [feed back something] 反馈 fǎnkuì to feed [something] back to [somebody]; 把某事物反馈给某人 the results of the questionnaire were fed back to Head Office 问卷调查的结果反馈给了总公司 feed in transitive verb[feed something in], [feed in something] 放入 fàngrù you feed the paper in at this end 你从这一端把纸放进去 feed up transitive verb[feed up somebody/something], [feed somebody/something up] 
① (nourish) 养壮 yǎngzhuàng ‹person›
② colloquial (fatten) 喂肥 wèiféi ‹animal›
feed 
▶verb
1 I've got three kids to feed: give food to, provide (food) for, cater for, cook for.
2 the baby will feed according to her needs: nurse, breastfeed, suckle; bottle-feed.
3 too many cows feeding in a small area: graze, browse, crop, pasture; eat, consume food, chow down.
4 the birds feed on a varied diet: live on/off, exist on, subsist on, eat, consume.
5 this series of victories fed his growing sense of invincibility: strengthen, fortify, support, bolster, reinforce, boost, fuel, encourage.
6 he regularly fed information to the police: supply, provide, give, deliver, furnish, issue, pass on.
▶noun feed for goats and sheep: fodder, food, forage, pasturage, herbage, provender; formal comestibles.
