feeling 
BrE ˈfiːlɪŋ, AmE ˈfilɪŋ 
A. noun 
① Uncountable(sense of touch) 触觉 chùjué I've lost all feeling in my left foot 我的左脚完全失去了知觉 
② Countable(physical sensation) 感觉 gǎnjué I was aware of an itchy feeling at the back of my neck 我感到脖子后面一阵发痒 a feeling of warmth spread throughout her body 一股暖意传遍她的全身 I had a feeling of tightness in my chest 我的胸部觉得憋闷 
③ Countable(emotional or mental sensation) 感触 gǎnchù I know the feeling colloquial 我感同身受 there never seems to be any money left at the end of the month — I know the feeling 每到月底似乎就没钱了──我也是 they don't listen to a word I say — I know the feeling 他们对我说的话一句都不听──我也有同感 his response gave her an uneasy feeling 他的反应让她感到不安 a feeling of satisfaction 满足感 she had no feelings of regret 她没有任何悔意 
④ Uncountable(emotion) 情感 qínggǎn the conflict between feeling and reason 情感与理智的冲突 he has a great deal of feeling for her 他对她感情很深 to put a bit more feeling into it 多投入一点感情进去 she plays the piano with great feeling 她演奏钢琴时十分投入 
⑤ Uncountable(sensitivity) 感受 gǎnshòu a person of feeling 一个善感的人 to have a feeling for [somebody]; 同情某人 she has no feeling for others 她对别人没有同情心 
⑥ feelings plural (emotional responses) 感情 gǎnqíng to hurt [somebody's] feelings 伤害某人的感情 to spare [somebody's] feelings 不使某人难过 to hide/show one's feelings 隐藏/表露自己的感情 she doesn't seem to have any maternal feelings 她似乎没有一点儿母性 
⑦ Uncountable(instinct) 直觉 zhíjué she doesn't have much feeling for the beauty of nature 她对大自然的美缺少鉴赏力 
⑧ Uncountable and countable(sentiment) 强烈情绪 qiángliè qíngxù she spoke with feeling about the issue of equality 她激动地谈论平等问题 the council's decision has stirred up a lot of feeling 地方议会的决定激起了强烈反响 feelings are running high 群情激愤 
⑨ Uncountable and countable(opinion) 意见 yìjiàn popular feeling 公众的意见 my own feeling is that it is too expensive 我个人认为它太贵了 what are your feelings on the matter? 你对这事是什么态度？ 
⑩ Countable(notion) 想法 xiǎngfǎ I've a feeling I forgot to lock the door 我觉得我忘了锁门 I had a feeling about her right from the start 我从一开始就对她有看法 I've got a bad feeling about this trip 我对这次旅行有种不祥的预感 I get the feeling that he doesn't like me colloquial 我觉得他不喜欢我 
⑪ Countable(atmosphere) 气氛 qìfēn the house had a homely feeling 这房子给人一种温馨的感觉 
B.  adjective 有同情心的 yǒu tóngqíngxīn de she is very feeling about other people 她对他人极富同情心 that wasn't a very feeling thing to say 那么说可不太地道 
feeling 
▶noun
1 assess the fabric by feeling: (sense of) touch, feel, tactile sense, using one's hands.
2 a feeling of nausea: sensation, sense, consciousness.
3 I had a feeling that I would win: suspicion, sneaking suspicion, notion, inkling, hunch, funny feeling, feeling in one's bones, fancy, idea; presentiment, premonition; informal gut feeling.
4 the strength of her feeling: love, affection, fondness, tenderness, warmth, warmness, emotion, sentiment; passion, ardor, desire.
5 a rush of feeling: compassion, sympathy, empathy, fellow feeling, concern, solicitude, solicitousness, tenderness, love; pity, sorrow, commiseration.
6 he had hurt her feelings: sensibilities, sensitivities, self-esteem, pride.
7 my feeling is that it is true: opinion, belief, view, impression, intuition, instinct, hunch, estimation, guess.
8 a feeling of peace: atmosphere, ambience, aura, air, feel, mood, impression, spirit, quality, flavor; informal vibrations, vibes.
▶adjective a feeling man: sensitive, warm, warmhearted, tender, tenderhearted, caring, sympathetic, kind, compassionate, understanding, thoughtful.
