fence 
BrE fɛns, AmE fɛns 

A.  noun 
① (barrier) 栅栏 zhàlan to sit on the fence 骑墙 to mend (one's) fences 捐弃前嫌 
② (in show jumping, horse racing) 围栏 wéilán 
③ colloquial (receiver of stolen goods) 窝藏赃物者 wōcáng zāngwù zhě 
B.  transitive verb 
① (enclose) 把…用栅栏围起来 bǎ… yòng zhàlan wéi qilai ‹land, garden›
② colloquial (sell) 销售 xiāoshòu ‹stolen goods›
C.  intransitive verb 击剑 jījiàn PHRASAL VERBS fence in transitive verb 
① [fence something in, fence in something] (surround) 把…用栅栏围起来 bǎ… yòng zhàlan wéi qilai ‹land, monument›
② [fence somebody/something in] literal 使…无法挪动 shǐ… wúfǎ nuódòng ‹person, car›; figurative (restrict) 限制 xiànzhì fence off transitive verb[fence something off, fence off something] 把…用栅栏隔开 bǎ… yòng zhàlan gékāi 
fence 
fens

▶noun
1 a barrier, railing, or other upright structure, typically of wood or wire, enclosing an area of ground to mark a boundary, control access, or prevent escape. 
• a large upright obstacle used in equestrian jumping events.
2 a guard or guide on a plane, saw, or other tool.
3 informal a person who deals in stolen goods. 
▶verb
1 [with object] surround or protect with a fence: our garden was not fully fenced. 
• (fence something in/off) enclose or separate with a fence for protection or to prevent escape: everything is fenced in to keep out the wolves. 
• (fence someone/something out) use a barrier to exclude someone or something: Idaho law requires people to fence out cows.
2 [with object] informal deal in (stolen goods): after stealing your ring, he didn't even know how to fence it.
3 [no object] fight with swords, especially as a sport. See also fencing. 
• conduct a discussion or argument in such a way as to avoid the direct mention of something: we were fencing, not talking about the subject we'd come to talk about. 
PHRASES
mend (one's) fences see mend. side of the fence either of the opposing positions involved in a conflict: whatever side of the fence you are on, the issue is here to stay. sit on the fence avoid making a decision or choice.DERIVATIVES fenceless 
ˈfensləs 
adjective. fencer 
ˈfensər 
nounORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘defending, defence’): shortening of defence. Compare with fend .
