fiddle 
BrE ˈfɪd(ə)l, AmE ˈfɪdl 

A.  noun 
① Music colloquial (violin) 小提琴 xiǎotíqín to be as fit as a fiddle 非常健康 a face like or as long as a fiddle 拉长的脸 to play second fiddle to [somebody] 给某人当副手 
② BrE colloquial (dishonest scheme) 骗局 piànjú to be on the fiddle; 行骗 
③ BrE colloquial (awkward task) 棘手的琐事 jíshǒu de suǒshì inserting a tape is a bit of a fiddle 装磁带有点麻烦 
B.  transitive verb colloquial 篡改 cuàngǎi ‹books, accounts, figures›; 虚报 xūbào ‹expenses, tax return›; 骗取 piànqǔ ‹free ticket›
C.  intransitive verb 
① (fidget) 拨弄 bōnong to fiddle with [something]; 拨弄某物 to fiddle about or around with [something]; 不停地拨弄某物 
② (adjust) 来回摆弄 láihuí bǎinòng to fiddle with [something]; 来回调整某物 to fiddle about or around with [something]; 不停摆弄某物 
③ (interfere) 乱动 luàndòng to fiddle with [something]; 乱动某物 to fiddle about or around (with [something]); 乱动（某物） 
④ Music colloquial 拉小提琴 lā xiǎotíqín PHRASAL VERB fiddle about, fiddle around intransitive verb 瞎混 xiāhùn 
fiddle 
ˈfidl

▶noun
1 informal a violin, especially when used to play folk music.
2 informal, chiefly British an act of defrauding, cheating, or falsifying: a major mortgage fiddle.
3 Nautical a contrivance, such as a raised rim, that prevents things from rolling or sliding off a table in bad weather. 
▶verb informal
1 [no object] play the fiddle: he fiddled with the band from 1949 to 1951 
(fiddling) : country music with lots of fiddling and banjo playing. 
• [with object] play (a tune) on the fiddle: Bill Monroe fiddled his last tune at his annual Beanblossom Bluegrass Festival.
2 [no object] touch or fidget with something in a restless or nervous way: Laura fiddled with her cup. 
• tinker with something in an attempt to make minor adjustments or improvements: never fiddle with an electric machine that's plugged in. 
• (fiddle around) pass time aimlessly, without doing or achieving anything of substance.
3 [with object] chiefly British falsify (figures, data, or records), typically in order to gain money: everyone is fiddling their expenses. 
PHRASES
fiddle while Rome burns be concerned with relatively trivial matters while ignoring the serious or disastrous events going on around one. (as) fit as a fiddle in good health. on the fiddle British informal engaged in cheating or swindling. play second fiddle to take a subordinate role to someone or something in a way often considered demeaning: she had to play second fiddle to the interests of her husband.ORIGIN Old Englishfithele, denoting a violin or similar instrument (originally not an informal or depreciatory term), based on Latin vitulari ‘celebrate a festival, be joyful,’ perhaps from Vitula, the name of a Roman goddess of joy and victory. Compare with viol .
