field 
BrE fiːld, AmE fild 
A. noun 
① CountableAgriculture (for crops) 田地 tiándì (for grazing) 牧场 mùchǎng a field of wheat 麦田 an arable field 可耕地 to work in the fields 在田间劳动 
② Countable(open area) 大片地方 dàpiàn dìfang a lava field 熔岩区 a large snow field 一大片雪原 
③ CountableGeology 矿田 kuàng tián an oil/gas field 油田/气田 
④ CountableSport (ground) 运动场 yùndòngchǎng a football/sports field 足球场/运动场 to take to the field 上场 
⑤ UncountableSport (group of contestants) 全体参赛者 quántǐ cānsàizhě it's a strong field 这一组参赛选手实力很强 to lead or be ahead of the field literal, figurative 处于领先地位 to play the field figurative colloquial 到处留情 
⑥ UncountableMilitary 战场 zhànchǎng on the field of battle 在战场上 to die in the field 战死沙场 to take the field 开始战斗 to hold the field literal, figurative 坚守阵地 
⑦ Countable(real environment) 实地 shídì a field investigation 实地调查 to test [something] in the field 实地检验某物 
⑧ Countable(area of knowledge) 领域 lǐngyù in the field of medicine 在医学领域 to lead the field in cold fusion research 在冷聚变研究领域处于领先地位 his field is … 他的研究领域是… it's outside my field 这不属于我的专业领域 
⑨ Countable(area of vision) 视野 shìyě field of vision or view 视野 shìyě 
⑩ CountableLinguistics 语义域 yǔyìyù 
⑪ CountablePhysics 场 chǎng a magnetic/force field 磁场/力场 
⑫ CountableComputing 字段 zìduàn 
⑬ Countable(design surface or background) [设计图案的] 底子 dǐzi 
B.  transitive verb 
① Sport 接 jiē ‹ball›
② (select) 选派…上场 xuǎnpài… shàngchǎng to field
10 players for a match 派10名选手参加比赛 
③ (supply) 把…投入使用 bǎ… tóurù shǐyòng ‹resources›to field
5 helicopters and 100 men 派出5架直升机和100个人 
④ (answer) 应付 yìngfù she fielded the questions skilfully 她巧妙地回答了问题 
field 
▶noun
1 a large plowed field: meadow, pasture, paddock, grassland, pastureland; literary lea, sward; archaic glebe.
2 a soccer field: playing field, ground, sports field; British pitch.
3 the field of biotechnology: area, sphere, discipline, province, department, domain, sector, branch, subject; informal bailiwick.
4 your field of vision: scope, range, sweep, reach, extent.
5 she is well ahead of the field: competitors, entrants, competition; applicants, candidates, possibles.
▶verb
1 she fielded the ball: catch, stop, retrieve; return, throw back.
2 they can field an army of about one million: deploy, position, range, dispose.
3 he fielded some awkward questions: deal with, handle, cope with, answer, reply to, respond to.
▶adjective
1 field experience: practical, hands-on, applied, experiential, empirical. ANTONYMS theoretical.
2 field artillery: mobile, portable, transportable, movable, maneuverable, light.
