fight 
BrE fʌɪt, AmE faɪt 

A.  noun 
① (brawl) 打斗 dǎdòu Military 战斗 zhàndòu there was a fight outside the pub last night 昨晚在酒吧外面发生了一场打斗 to get into or have a fight with [somebody]; 和某人斗殴 to fight the good fight 英勇战斗 to be in a fight to the death 殊死搏斗 
② figurative (struggle) 斗争 dòuzhēng a fight for equality 争取平等的斗争 to put up a (good) fight 进行（英勇）斗争 [somebody's] fight against cancer 某人与癌症的斗争 
③ (in boxing) 拳击赛 quánjīsài 
④ (quarrel) 争吵 zhēngchǎo to have a fight with [somebody]; 跟某人争辩 to pick a fight (with [somebody]) （与某人）吵架 to have a fight over money 为钱争吵 
⑤ (combative spirit) 斗志 dòuzhì he had no fight left in him 他失去了斗志 
B.  intransitive verb(past tense, past participle fought) 
① (brawl) 打斗 dǎdòu Military 战斗 zhàndòu to fight with [somebody]; 和某人斗殴 to fight against [somebody]; Military 与某人作战 Sport 与某人比赛 to fight for one's country 为祖国而战 to go down fighting 战斗到底 soldiers who fought in the First World War 参加过第一次世界大战的士兵 
② figurative (struggle) 斗争 dòuzhēng to fight (hard) to improve/change [something] 为改善/改变某事物而（奋力）斗争 to fight against sleep 撑着不睡着 to fight for one's life 奋力求生 
③ (quarrel) 争吵 zhēngchǎo to fight with [somebody] (over or about [something]); 与某人（为某事）争吵 
④ (compete against) 竞争 jìngzhēng to fight against [somebody]; 与某人竞争 
C.  transitive verb(past tense, past participle fought) 
① (brawl with) 与…打斗 yǔ… dǎdòu (in boxing) 与…搏击 yǔ… bójī Military 与…战斗 yǔ… zhàndòu they fought the enemy on the streets of the capital 他们在首都街头与敌人战斗 
② (struggle against) 与…作斗争 yǔ… zuò dòuzhēng ‹racism, cancer›to fight a fire 扑火 to fight the urge to do [something] 设法克制做某事的冲动 to fight a losing battle 打一场无望取胜的仗 to fight a losing battle to stem the tears figurative 想忍住泪水，却做不到 
③ figurative (battle) 努力开辟 nǔlì kāipì to fight one's way (through) 努力辟出一条路 to fight one's way to the front of the crowd 奋力挤到人群的前面 to fight one's way to the top of the company 努力奋斗登上公司的高位 
④ (compete for) 竞争 jìngzhēng to fight a seat/an election 竞选席位/参加竞选 
⑤ (run) 进行 jìnxíng to fight a campaign (against [something]) 开展（反对某事物的）运动 
⑥ Law 打（官司） dǎ(guānsi) to fight the case 打这场官司 PHRASAL VERBS fight back 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (retaliate) 还击 huánjī (resist) 抵抗 dǐkàng the police were forced to fight back 警方不得不进行还击 to fight back against a disease 与疾病抗争 
② Sport 反攻 fǎngōng 
B.  transitive verb[fight back something] 忍住 rěnzhù ‹laughter, tears›fight down transitive verb[fight down something] 抑制住 yìzhì zhù ‹urge, impulse›to fight down the impulse to laugh 尽力忍住不笑 fight off transitive verb[fight off somebody/something], [fight somebody/something off] 
① literal 击退 jītuì ‹attacker, troops, attack›
② (get rid of) 竭力摆脱 jiélì bǎituō to fight off a cold 治愈感冒 to fight off sleep 克服睡意 
③ (reject) 拒不接受 jù bù jiēshòu ‹criticism, proposals›fight on intransitive verb 继续战斗 jìxù zhàndòu ; figurative 继续斗争 jìxù dòuzhēng fight out transitive verb[fight something out], [fight out something] 
① literal 以斗争方式解决 yǐ dòuzhēng fāngshì jiějué to fight it out to the end 斗争到底 
② figurative 就…辩论出结果 jiù… biànlùn chū jiéguǒ ‹disagreement›let them fight it out 让他们去争个水落石出吧 
fight 
▶verb
1 two men were fighting: brawl, exchange blows, attack each other, assault each other, hit each other, punch each other; struggle, grapple, wrestle; informal scrap, have a set-to, roughhouse, engage in fisticuffs.
2 they fought in the First World War: (do) battle, go to war, take up arms, be a soldier; engage, meet, clash, skirmish.
3 a war fought for freedom: engage in, wage, conduct, prosecute, undertake.
4 they are always fighting: quarrel, argue, bicker, squabble, fall out, have a fight, have a row, wrangle, be at odds, disagree, differ, have words, bandy words, be at each other's throats, be at loggerheads; informal scrap.
5 fighting against wage reductions: campaign, strive, battle, struggle, contend, crusade, agitate, lobby, push, press.
6 they will fight the decision: oppose, contest, contend with, confront, challenge, combat, dispute, quarrel with, argue against/with, strive against, struggle against.
7 Tyler fought the urge to stick his tongue out: repress, restrain, suppress, stifle, smother, hold back, fight back, keep in check, curb, control, rein in, choke back; informal keep the lid on.
▶noun
1 a fight outside a club: brawl, fracas, melee, rumpus, skirmish, sparring match, struggle, scuffle, altercation, clash, disturbance; fisticuffs; informal scrap, set-to, donnybrook.
2 a heavyweight fight: boxing match, bout, match.
3 Richard the Lionheart's fight against the French: battle, engagement, clash, conflict, struggle; war, campaign, crusade, action, hostilities.
4 a fight with my girlfriend: argument, quarrel, squabble, row, wrangle, disagreement, falling-out, contretemps, altercation, dispute; informal tiff, spat, scrap, cat fight, blowup; vulgar slang shitstorm.
5 their fight for control of the company: struggle, battle, campaign, push, effort.
6 she had no fight left in her: will to resist, resistance, spirit, courage, pluck, pluckiness, grit, strength, backbone, determination, resolution, resolve, resoluteness, aggression, aggressiveness; informal guts, spunk, moxie.
PHRASES
fight back
1 if the enemy attacks, we will fight back: retaliate, counterattack, strike back, hit back, respond, reciprocate, return fire, give tit for tat.
2 Russ fought back tears. See fight (sense
7 of the verb). fight off they tried in vain to fight off the swarming locusts: repel, repulse, beat off/back, ward off, fend off, keep/hold at bay, drive away/back, force back.
