figure 
BrE ˈfɪɡə, AmE ˈfɪɡjər 

A.  noun 
① (number, amount) 数字 shùzì unemployment figures 失业数字 to put a figure on [something] 给出某事物的确切数字 in round figures 以整数 single/double figures 个位数/两位数 a six-figure salary 6位数的薪水 to sell for a high figure 卖个高价 the figure
7 数字7 there is a mistake in his figures (data) 他的数据中有一个错误 
② figures plural Mathematics 算术 suànshù to be good at figures 擅长算术 shàncháng suànshù to have a head for figures 有算术头脑 yǒu suànshù tóunǎo 
③ (personage, representative) 人物 rénwù a leading/key/minor figure 主要/关键/次要人物 a public figure 公众人物 a figure of authority 权威人士 a cult figure 崇拜的偶像 
④ (human form) 人影 rényǐng a tall figure approached me 一个高个子人影朝我走来 a familiar/imposing figure 熟悉的/威严的身影 to cut a sorry/fine figure 显出可怜的样子/风度翩翩 
⑤ (body shape) 身材 shēncái to have a good/awful figure 身材好/不好 to keep/lose one's figure 保持身材/身材走样 to watch one's figure 注意保持体形 a fine figure of a man/woman 体格健美的男人/身材窈窕的女人 
⑥ (illustration) 插图 chātú ; (diagram) 图表 túbiǎo see figure
4 见图表4 
⑦ (outline) 图案 tú'àn to draw a figure of an elephant 画一头大象 
⑧ Mathematics 图形 túxíng a solid figure 立体图形 a six-sided figure 六边形 
⑨ Art 人像 rénxiàng a sculpture of two figures embracing 一尊两人相拥的雕像 
⑩ (in dance) 花式 huāshì 
⑪ Music 音型 yīnxíng 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (appear) 出现 chūxiàn to figure prominently on the music scene/in world politics 在音乐界/国际政坛赫赫有名 to figure in a report 列入报告 
② colloquial (make sense) 合乎情理 héhū qínglǐ that figures 那是合乎情理的 it doesn't figure 这没有道理 it figures that … …是理所当然的 
C.  transitive verb 
① especially AmE colloquial (reckon) 认为 rènwéi I figure I'd better leave 我想我该走了 that's what I figured 这就是我的看法 
② (calculate) 计算 jìsuàn ‹value, amount›
③ (express pictorially) 以图表表示 yǐ túbiǎo biǎoshì PHRASAL VERBS figure on transitive verb[figure on something] especially AmE colloquial 指望 zhǐwang I hadn't figured on getting a prize 我没有料到会得奖 to figure on doing [something] (plan) 打算做某事 figure out 
A.  [figure out something], [figure something out] transitive verb 
① (work out) 想出 xiǎngchū ‹answer, way›; 算出 suànchū ‹tax, sum›
② (understand) 弄明白 nòng míngbai ‹issue›I can't figure out what he's trying to say 我弄不懂他想说什么 to have one's future figured out 想清楚自己的未来 
B.  [figure somebody out] transitive verb 理解 lǐjiě ‹person›I can't figure him out 我一点儿都摸不透他 
figure 
ˈfiɡyər

▶noun
1 a number, especially one that forms part of official statistics or relates to the financial performance of a company: official census figures 
a figure of 30,000 deaths annually from snakebite. 
• a numerical symbol, especially any of the ten in Arabic notation: the figure 7. 
• one of a specified number of digits making up a larger number, used to give a rough idea of the order of magnitude: their market price runs into five figures 
[in combination] : a six-figure salary. 
• an amount of money: a figure of two thousand dollars. 
• (figures) arithmetical calculations: she has no head for figures.
2 a person's bodily shape, especially that of a woman and when considered to be attractive: she had always been so proud of her figure. 
• a person seen indistinctly, especially at a distance: a backpacked figure appeared in the distance. 
• a person of a particular kind, especially one who is important or distinctive in some way: Williams became something of a cult figure. 
• a representation of a human or animal form in drawing or sculpture: starkly painted figures.
3 a shape defined by one or more lines in two dimensions (such as a circle or a triangle), or one or more surfaces in three dimensions (such as a sphere or a cuboid), either considered mathematically in geometry or used as a decorative design: a red ground with white and blue geometric figures. 
• a diagram or illustrative drawing, especially in a book or magazine: figure
1 shows an ignition circuit. 
• (in skating) a movement or series of movements following a prescribed pattern and often beginning and ending at the same point. 
• a pattern formed by the movements of a group of people, for example in square dancing or synchronized swimming, as part of a longer dance or display. 
• archaic the external form or shape of a thing.
4 Music a short succession of notes producing a single impression.
5 Logic the form of a syllogism, classified according to the position of the middle term. 
▶verb [no object]
1 be a significant and noticeable part of something: the issue of nuclear policy figured prominently in the talks. 
• (of a person) play a significant role in a situation or event: he figured largely in opposition to the bill. 
• (of a fictional character) play a part in a novel, play, or movie: the four characters who figure in Ridley's play.
2 [with object] North American calculate or work out (an amount or value) arithmetically.
3 [with clause] informal, chiefly North American think, consider, or expect to be the case: I figure that wearing a suit makes you look like a bank clerk 
[with object] : for years, teachers had figured him for a dullard. 
• (of a recent event or newly discovered fact) be logical and unsurprising: well, she supposed that figured.
4 [with object] represent (something) in a diagram or picture: varieties of this Cape genus are figured from drawings made there. 
• (usually as adjective figured) embellish (something) with a pattern: the floors were covered with figured linoleum. 
PHRASES
figure of fun a person who is considered ridiculous. lose (or keep) one's figure lose (or retain) a slim and attractive bodily shape.PHRASAL VERBS figure on North American informal count or rely on something happening or being the case in the future: anyone thinking of salmon fishing should figure on paying $200 a day. figure something out informal solve or discover the cause of a problem: he was trying to figure out why the camera wasn't working. figure someone out reach an understanding of a person's actions, motives, or personality.DERIVATIVES figureless adjectiveORIGIN Middle English (in the senses ‘distinctive shape of a person or thing,’ ‘representation of something material or immaterial,’ and ‘numerical symbol,’ among others): from Old French figure (noun), figurer (verb), from Latin figura ‘shape, figure, form’; related to fingere ‘form, contrive.’
