fill 
BrE fɪl, AmE fɪl 

A.  transitive verb 
① (make full) 装满 zhuāngmǎn to fill a box with books 把盒子装满书 to fill [somebody] a bucket of water 帮某人装满一桶水 
② (plug) 填补 tiánbǔ to fill a cavity 填补龋洞 to fill a hole in the wall 修补墙上的一个洞 
③ (occupy) 充满 chōngmǎn a church filled with flowers 摆满鲜花的教堂 the theatre is filled to capacity 剧院座无虚席 to fill two seats 占两个座位 tears filled her eyes 她的眼里噙满了泪水 anger filled his heart 他的心中充满了愤怒 his life was filled with love 他的一生充满了爱 the idea filled me with excitement 这个想法让我十分兴奋 the film that is filling cinemas all over the country 票房好得让全国的电影院都座无虚席的影片 the next few days are filled with meetings 接下来的几天时间都用于开会 
④ (pervade) 布满 bùmǎn ‹room, hall, garden›the smell of garlic filled the house 房子里弥漫着大蒜的气味 smoke filled the air 空气中烟雾弥漫 
⑤ (use up) 耗去 hàoqù to fill (the or one's) time doing [something] 做某事打发时间 
⑥ (provide for) 满足 mǎnzú ‹need, requirement›; 填补 tiánbǔ ‹void, gap›that fills the bill colloquial 那正合适 
⑦ Nautical «wind» 鼓起 gǔqǐ ‹sail›
⑧ (stuff) 填充 tiánchōng ‹pillow›to fill a turkey with stuffing 给火鸡填入馅料 
⑨ (appoint sb. to) «company, committee» 派人担任 pài rén dānrèn ‹post›; (accept a post) «worker» 充任 chōngrèn ‹post›the vacancy has been filled 那个空缺已有人接任 
⑩ especially AmE (supply items for) 按…供应 àn… gōngyìng the waiter went to fill the order 侍者去上菜了 the chemist was unable to fill the prescription 药剂师无法按处方配药 
⑪ (with food) = fill up 
B. 
① 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (become full) 变满 biànmǎn the bath takes three minutes to fill 浴缸蓄满水需要3分钟 the theatre began to fill 剧院开始满座 his eyes filled with tears 他的眼里噙满了泪水 
② (with smell, light) 布满 bùmǎn to fill with smoke «room» 布满烟雾 
③ Nautical «sail» 鼓起 gǔqǐ 
C.  noun 
① (capacity) to eat or have one's fill 吃饱 chībǎo to drink or have one's fill 喝足 hēzú 
② (limit) to have had one's fill of [something]/doing [something]; 受够了某事物/做某事 shòugòule mǒu shìwù/zuò mǒu shì I've had my fill of housework! 家务活我已经干够了！ PHRASAL VERBS fill in 
A.  [fill in something], [fill something in] transitive verb 
① (plug) 填满 tiánmǎn ‹hole›to fill in a cavity 补好龋洞 
② (complete) 填写 tiánxiě ‹form›; (write in) 填入 tiánrù ‹information›I filled in the form 我把表格填好了 
③ (colour in) 给…着色 gěi… zhuósè ‹shape›fill the circle in in red 把圆圈涂成红色 
④ colloquial (supply) 提供 tígōng ‹information›to fill in a few details (for [somebody]) （向某人）提供一些细节 
⑤ (occupy) to fill in time; 打发时间 dǎfa shíjiān to fill in a few hours shopping 靠购物打发掉几个小时 
B.  [fill somebody in] transitive verb 向…通报 xiàng… tōngbào to fill [somebody] in on [something]; 向某人通告某事 
C.  intransitive verb 临时代替 línshí dàitì to fill in for [somebody] 暂代某人工作 fill out 
A.  transitive verb[fill out something], [fill something out] 开具 kāijù ‹certificate, authorization›; 填写 tiánxiě ‹form, application›to fill out a prescription 开处方 
B.  intransitive verb 长胖 zhǎngpàng fill up 
A.  [fill up something], [fill something up] transitive verb 
① (make full) 装满 zhuāngmǎn ‹container›to be filled up to the brim 注满到边缘上 to fill [something] up with [something]; 用某物装满某物 to fill the kettle up with water 把水壶装满水 
② (occupy entirely) 占据 zhànjù ‹space, room›when people start to arrive, they'll fill the room up 人们到来后就会把房间挤满 
③ (occupy) 打发 dǎfa ‹time, day›to fill up (the) time with housework 干家务活消磨时间 
④ Auto 加满 jiāmǎn ‹car, tank›to fill a car up with unleaded petrol 把油箱加满无铅汽油 
B.  [fill somebody up] transitive verb 
① (make eat a lot) 让…吃饱 ràng… chībǎo ‹person›to fill [somebody]/oneself up with [something]; 用某物喂饱某人/尽情吃某物 don't fill him up with beer! 别给他灌饱啤酒 don't fill yourself up with biscuits! 别用饼干填饱肚子 
② (satisfy) «food» 使…饱足 shǐ… bǎozú ‹person›bread fills me up 我吃面包很容易饱 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (become full) 变满 biànmǎn to fill up with [something]; 充满某物 the bucket filled up with water 桶里注满了水 the theatre began to fill up before the performance 表演开始前，剧院开始满座 
② Auto (with fuel) 加满油 jiāmǎn yóu 
fill 
fil

▶verb [with object] put someone or something into (a space or container) so that it is completely or almost completely full: I filled up the bottle with water 
the office was filled with reporters. 
• [no object] (fill with) become full of: Eleanor's eyes filled with tears. 
• become an overwhelming presence in: a pungent smell of garlic filled the air. 
• cause (someone) to have an intense experience of an emotion or feeling: his presence filled us with foreboding. 
• appoint a person to hold (a vacant position): the number of high-tech jobs and the people who can fill them. 
• hold and perform the expected duties of (a position or role): she fills the role of the “good” child. 
• occupy or take up (a period of time): the next few days were filled with meetings. 
• chiefly North American be supplied with the items described in (a prescription or order): she needed to fill a prescription. 
• block up (a cavity in a tooth) with cement, amalgam, or gold. 
• [no object] (of a sail) curve out tautly as the wind blows into it. 
• (of a weather system) increase in barometric pressure. Compare with deepen. 
• [with object] (of the wind) blow into (a sail), causing it to curve outward. 
• (in poker) complete (a good hand) by drawing the necessary cards. 
▶noun
1 (one's fill) an amount of something that is as much as one wants or can bear: we have eaten our fill 
I've had my fill of surprises for one day.
2 an amount of something that will occupy all the space in a container. 
• material, loose or compacted, that fills a space, especially in building or engineering work: loose polystyrene fill. 
• the action of filling something, especially of shading in a region of a computer graphics display. 
• (in popular music) a short interjected phrase on a particular instrument. 
PHRASES
fill the bill see bill1. fill someone's shoes informal take over someone's function or duties and fulfill them satisfactorily.PHRASAL VERBS fill in act as a substitute for someone when they are unable to do their job: my producer will have to have someone standing by to fill in for me. fill someone in
1 inform someone more fully of a matter, giving all the details: the cab driver filled me in on much important economic and sociological data.
2 British informal, dated hit or punch someone: I filled in a chap and took his money. fill something in put material into a hole, trench, or space so that it is completely full: the canal is now disused and partly filled in. 
• complete a drawing by adding color or shade to the spaces within an outline: incised letters, filled in with gold. 
• chiefly British add information to complete something, typically a form or other official document: he filled in all the forms. fill out (of a person) put on weight to a noticeable extent. fill something out add information to complete an official form or document: he filled out the requisite forms. 
• give more details to add to someone's understanding of something: he filled out the background by going into historical questions. fill up become completely full: the dining car filled up. 
• fill the fuel tank of a car.ORIGIN Old English fyllan (verb), fyllu (noun) of Germanic origin; related to Dutch vullen and German füllen (verbs), Fülle (noun), also to full1 .
