filter 
BrE ˈfɪltə, AmE ˈfɪltər 

A.  noun 
① (device) 过滤器 guòlǜqì (material) 过滤材料 guòlǜ cáiliào an air/water filter 空气/水过滤器 an oil filter 滤油器 cigarettes with filters 过滤嘴香烟 guòlǜzuǐ xiāngyān 
② Electronics 滤波器 lǜbōqì 
③ Photography 滤光镜 lǜguāngjìng 
④ BrE Transport 绿色分流信号灯 lǜsè fēnliú xìnhàodēng 
B.  transitive verb «person, equipment, system» 过滤 guòlǜ ‹petrol, water, air›
C.  intransitive verb 
① (trickle) «light, sound, music» 透过 tòuguo to filter in/through …; 透进/透过 
② (slowly become known) «news, information» 慢慢传开 mànmàn chuánkāi to filter through/in/into …; 慢慢传入… 
③ (move slowly) 徐徐行进 xúxú xíngjìn to filter back/out 慢慢回来/出去 
④ BrE Transport to filter (off); «vehicles, driver» 在分流车道上行驶 zài fēnliú chēdào shang xíngshǐ PHRASAL VERB filter out transitive verb[filter out something], [filter something out] «person, system, equipment» 滤除 lǜchú ‹dirt, dust, impurities›
filter 
ˈfiltər

▶noun a porous device for removing impurities or solid particles from a liquid or gas passed through it: an oil filter. 
• short for filter tip: [as modifier] : a cheap filter cigarette. 
• a screen, plate, or layer of a substance that absorbs light or other radiation or selectively absorbs some of its components: filters can be used in photography to reduce haze. 
• a device for suppressing electrical or sound waves of frequencies not required. 
• Computing a piece of software that processes text, for example to remove unwanted spaces or to format it for use in another application. 
• British an arrangement whereby vehicles may turn left (or right) while other traffic waiting to go straight ahead or turn right (or left) is stopped by a red light: [as modifier] : a filter lane. 
▶verb [with object]
1 pass (a liquid, gas, light, or sound) through a device to remove unwanted material: the patient is hooked up to a dialysis machine twice a week to filter out the cholesterol in the blood 
figurative : you'll be put through to a secretary whose job it is to filter calls. 
• [no object, with adverbial of direction] move slowly or in small quantities or numbers through something or in a specified direction: people filtered out of the concert during the last set. 
• [no object, with adverbial] (of information) gradually become known: the news began to filter in from the hospital.
2 [with object] Computing process or treat with a filter. ORIGIN late Middle English (denoting a piece of felt): from French filtre, from medieval Latin filtrum ‘felt used as a filter,’ related to felt1 .
