finish 
BrE ˈfɪnɪʃ, AmE ˈfɪnɪʃ 

A.  transitive verb 
① (end) 结束 jiéshù ‹activity›(complete) 完成 wánchéng ‹task›to finish eating 吃完 chīwán let me finish what I was saying 让我把话说完 to finish writing an essay/reading a book 写完一篇文章/读完一本书 when was the Pompidou Centre finished? 蓬皮杜中心是什么时候建成的？ to put the finishing touches to [something] 对某物作最后的润色 he finishes university next year 他明年大学毕业 to finish work (for the day) 下班 (retire) 退休 
② (eat all of) 吃完 chīwán (drink all of) 喝完 hēwán (use all of) 用完 yòngwán are you going to finish those potatoes? 你会把那些土豆吃完吗？ 
③ colloquial (destroy) 毁掉 huǐdiào the scandal finished her as an actress 这一丑闻毁了她的演艺生涯 any more stress will finish him 再多一点压力就会让他崩溃 climbing that mountain almost finished me 爬那座山差点儿把我累死 
④ (treat) 对…进行表面处理 duì… jìnxíng biǎomiàn chǔlǐ to finish the shelves with furniture oil 给架子刷家具漆 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (conclude, end) 结束 jiéshù the meeting didn't finish until ten o'clock 会议直到10点才结束 to finish by announcing [something] 以公布某事作为结束 let me finish 让我把话说完 the film finishes on Saturday 这部影片将于星期六停映 
② (reach end of race) 跑完全程 páowán quánchéng to finish first or in first place 跑了第一名 to finish badly/well 比赛成绩不好/好 
C.  noun 
① (end) 最后阶段 zuìhòu jiēduàn from start to finish 自始至终 to be in at the finish figurative 在最后阶段在场 
② (of race, journey) 终点 zhōngdiǎn to arrive at the finish 到达终点 it's going to be a close finish 比赛结果将难分上下 to fight to the finish 战斗到底 a fight to the finish 持续到最后一刻的搏斗 
③ (surface appearance) 成品表面 chéngpǐn biǎomiàn (paint, lacquer, etc.) 末道漆 mòdàoqī (veneer) 饰面 shìmiàn an oil/a wax finish 油/蜡涂饰 paint with a gloss/matt finish 亮光/亚光漆 a mahogany/metal finish 红木/金属饰面 PHRASAL VERBS finish off 
A.  [finish something off], [finish off something] transitive verb 
① (consume all of) 吃完 chīwán ‹food›; 喝光 hēguāng ‹drink›
② (complete) 完成 wánchéng ‹work, task›to finish off the letter/book 把信/书写完 to finish off the week's work 做完一周的工作 
③ (end) 结束 jiéshù ‹activity›to finish off the conference with the national anthem 以国歌结束会议 to finish off one's talk by announcing the winners 以宣布获胜者名单结束讲话 
B.  [finish somebody off] transitive verb 
① (kill) 杀死 shāsǐ to finish [somebody] off with one's sword 用剑结果了某人 
② figurative (destroy) 毁掉 huǐdiào a mistake that finished him off as a politician 一个断送他政治生涯的错误 the final sprint finished me off 最后的冲刺要了我的命 finish up 
A.  transitive verb[finish something up], [finish up something] 吃完 chīwán ‹food›; 喝光 hēguāng ‹drink›
B.  intransitive verb BrE 终结 zhōngjié to finish up (by) doing [something] 以做某事结束 he wanted to be an architect but finished up as a teacher 他原来想当建筑师，但最后却成了老师 I took the wrong bus and finished up on the other side of town 我上错了公共汽车，结果到了城区的另一头 finish with 
A.  [finish with something] transitive verb 不再需用 bù zài xū yòng have you finished with that book? 那本书你已经看完了吗？ to be finished with [something]; (stop using) 不再需用某物 (stop participating in) 不再参与某事 give me the pen when you're finished with it 这支笔你用完后给我 I'm finished with theatre/politics! 我与戏剧/政治一刀两断了！ 
B.  [finish with somebody] transitive verb 
① (cut relations with) 与…断绝关系 yǔ… duànjué guānxì she finished with her boyfriend 她与男友分手了 
② colloquial (stop scolding) 不再责怪 bù zài zéguài I haven't finished with you yet! 我和你还没完呢！ 
finish 
ˈfiniSH

▶verb [with object]
1 bring (a task or activity) to an end; complete: they were straining to finish the job 
[with present participle] : we finished eating our meal 
[no object] : the musician finished to thunderous applause. 
• consume or get through the final amount or portion of (something, especially food or drink): finish your fajita while it's still hot 
Jerry finished off a margarita. 
• [no object] (of an activity) come to an end: the war has finished but nothing has changed. 
• [no object] (finish with) have no more need for or nothing more to do with: “I've finished with Tom,” Gloria said. 
• reach the end of a race or other sporting competition, typically in a particular position: [with complement] : she finished third in the 3-meter springboard diving.
2 (usually be finished) complete the manufacture or decoration of (a material, object, or place) by giving it an attractive surface appearance: the interior was finished with V-jointed American oak. 
• complete the fattening of (livestock) before slaughter. 
• dated prepare (a girl) for entry into fashionable society. 
▶noun
1 [usually in singular] an end or final part or stage of something: a bowl of raspberries was the perfect finish to the meal 
I really enjoyed the film from start to finish. 
• a point or place at which a race or competition ends: he surged into a winning lead 200 meters from the finish.
2 the manner in which the manufacture of an article is completed in detail: wide variation in specification and finish. 
• the surface appearance of a manufactured material or object, or the material used to produce this: lightweight nylon with a shiny finish. 
• the final taste impression of a wine or beer: the wine has a lemony tang on the finish. 
PHRASES
a fight to the finish a fight or contest that ends only with the complete defeat of one of the parties involved.PHRASAL VERBS finish someone off kill, destroy, or comprehensively defeat someone. finish up complete an action or process: he hadn't finished up the paperwork on it. 
• end a period of time or course of action by doing something or being in a particular position: Tony started out running the back elevator and finished up as bell captain 
we finished up with a plate of meats.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French feniss-, lengthened stem of fenir, from Latin finire, from finis ‘end.’
