fish 
BrE fɪʃ, AmE fɪʃ 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(plural fish or fishes) Zoology 鱼 yú a shoal of fish 一大群鱼 freshwater/sea/tropical fish 淡水鱼/海鱼/热带鱼 to catch a fish 捕到一条鱼 like a fish out of water colloquial 如鱼离水 to drink like a fish colloquial 饮酒过度 there are plenty more or of other fish in the sea colloquial (available men or women) 天涯何处无芳草 to have other fish to fry colloquial 还有更重要的事要做 
② UncountableCulinary 鱼肉 yúròu a fish market 鱼市 yúshì a fish bone 鱼刺 a fish fork 鱼餐叉 
③ Uncountablecolloquial (person) an odd/a cold fish BrE 怪人/冷淡的家伙 guàirén/lěngdàn de jiāhuo a big fish in a little pond 小池塘里的大鱼 ［指只在小范围内有影响的人］xiǎo chítáng li de dà yú 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (with rod) 钓鱼 diào yú (with nets) 捕鱼 bǔ yú to go (trout) fishing 去钓（鳟）鱼 to fish for salmon 捕鲑鱼 to fish off the coast 在离海岸不远处捕鱼 to fish in troubled waters figurative 混水摸鱼 
② figurative (try to get) 转弯抹角地谋取 zhuǎn wān mò jiǎo de móuqǔ (try to find out) 旁敲侧击地打听 páng qiāo cè jī de dǎting to fish for information/compliments 转弯抹角地探听消息/谋取恭维 stop fishing! 别再打听了！ 
C.  transitive verb 
① (with rod) 在…中钓鱼 zài… zhōng diào yú ‹waters, river›; (with nets) 在…中捕鱼 zài… zhōng bǔ yú ‹waters, sea›
② colloquial (from bag, box) 掏出 tāochū (from water) 捞出 lāochū to fish [something] from one's pocket 从口袋里掏出某物 they fished a body from the canal 他们在运河里捞上来一具尸体 PHRASAL VERBS fish around intransitive verb 找寻 zhǎoxún to fish around for [something]; 摸找 ‹object› 探求 tànqiú ‹information›fish out transitive verb[fish something out], [fish out something] (from bag, box) 掏出 tāochū ; (from water) 捞出 lāochū 
fish 
▶verb
1 we can fish in Putnam's Pond: go fishing, angle, cast, trawl, troll, seine.
2 she fished for her purse: search, delve, look, hunt; grope, fumble, ferret (about/around), root around/about, rummage (around/about).
3 I'm not fishing for compliments: try to get, seek to obtain, solicit, angle for, aim for, hope for, cast around/about for, be after.
PHRASES
fish out I fished my earring out of the cake batter: pull out, haul out, remove, extricate, extract, retrieve; rescue from, save from. 
WORD LINKS
fish ichthyology the branch of zoology concerned with fish pisciculture the controlled breeding and rearing of fishichthyophobia fear of fishWord Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.
