fit
1 
BrE fɪt, AmE fɪt 

A.  adjective 
① (in trim) 健康的 jiànkāng de to keep (oneself) fit 保持健康 to look/feel fit 看上去/感觉身体很好 I am not fit for work 我身体不适，不能上班 as fit as a fiddle colloquial 非常健康的 
② predicative (suitable) 适合的 shìhé de to be fit for the job 能胜任工作 a house/meal fit for a queen or king 富丽堂皇的房子/精致可口的食物 this house is not fit to live in 这房子不适宜居住 I'm not fit to be seen 我的样子无法见人 not a fit time to do [something] 不是做某事的时候 to be fit and proper formal 适宜 to see or think fit to do [something] 认为做某事是妥当的 to do as one sees or thinks fit 做认为该做的事 
③ predicative colloquial (ready) 几乎要…的 jīhū yào… de shouting/singing fit to wake the dead 叫声/歌声大得几乎能把死人吵醒 she looked fit to drop 她看起来快要累垮了 to laugh fit to burst 差点笑破肚子 fit to be tied colloquial 非常恼火 
B.  transitive verb(present participle fitting, past tense, past participle fitted or AmE fit) 
① (be the right size for) «clothes, size» 适合 shìhé ‹person›these trousers don't fit me 这条裤子我穿不合身 to fit one like a glove 非常合身 to fit ages
3 to
5 适合3至5岁的孩子穿 one size fits all 均码 to fit the lock «key» 能开这把锁 to fit an A4 envelope 可以装进一个A4信封 
② (find room for) 找空间安置 zhǎo kōngjiān ānzhì how are we going to fit everyone into the hall? 礼堂怎么容纳下所有的人呢？ to fit another plant on one's desk 在桌上再放一盆植物 to fit three meetings into one day 在一天中安排开三次会 
③ (install) 安装 ānzhuāng ‹attachment›(equip) 给…装配件 gěi… zhuāng pèijiàn ‹car, chair›to fit [something] into place 把某物安装好 to fit a kitchen/garage with [something] 为厨房/为车库配备某物 I fitted the car with an alarm or I fitted an alarm to the car 我在车上装了警报器 
④ (insert) 把…放入 bǎ… fàngrù to fit the key into the lock 把钥匙插进锁孔 
⑤ (try on) 让…试 ràng… shì ‹person›to fit [somebody] for a suit/dress; 让某人试穿西装/裙子 to fit [somebody] with [something]; 为某人调试 ‹glasses, hearing aid›
⑥ figurative (match) 符合 fúhé (go with) 与…相称 yǔ… xiāngchèn to fit a description/theory 符合描述/理论 that chair doesn't fit the room 那把椅子与房间不相配 the punishment should fit the crime 罚需当罪 to fit the bill colloquial 符合要求 
⑦ (qualify) 使合格 shǐ hégé your experience fits you for the job 你的经验使你胜任这份工作 to be fitted for the role of prime minister 能担任首相一职 
⑧ (adjust) 使适应 shǐ shìyìng we must fit our policies to the new circumstances 我们必须根据新情况调整我们的政策 
C.  intransitive verb(present participle fitting; past tense, past participle fitted or AmE fit) 
① (be the right size or shape) 合适 héshì the jacket doesn't fit 这件夹克衫不合身 to fit like a glove «clothes, size» 非常合身 a lid that fits 大小合适的盖子 to fit inside one another «bowls» 可以摞在一起 all the jigsaw pieces fit into place 拼图的所有图块都安放到位 
② (be accommodated in) 被容纳 bèi róngnà will the toys all fit into the box? 那个盒子装得下所有玩具吗？ 
③ figurative (tally, match) 符合 fúhé his story doesn't fit 他的说法不相符 something doesn't fit here 这里有些不协调 his statement doesn't fit with the facts 他的陈述与事实不符 to fit into one's lifestyle/philosophy 符合自己的生活方式/理念 
D.  noun 合适 héshì to be a good fit «garment» 很合身 to prefer a looser fit 偏爱宽松的衣服 the fit is quite good 大小正合适 the plug is a perfect fit for the sink 这个塞子用在这个水槽正合适 with seven of us it'll be a tight fit 我们有7个人，会很挤的 PHRASAL VERBS fit in 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (be inserted) 被放入 bèi fàngrù the battery fits in there 电池可以装进那里 
② (be accommodated) 被容纳 bèi róngnà seven people could fit in (easily) 可以（轻松）容纳7人 these books won't fit in 这些书放不下 
③ figurative (be compatible) «statement, plan» 符合 fúhé ; «person» 相处融洽 xiāngchǔ róngqià to fit in with [somebody]/[something]; 适合某人/某事物 it didn't fit in with our arrangements 这与我们的安排有冲突 to fit in (with other people) （与其他人）合得来 I'll fit in with your plans 我会配合你的计划 
B.  transitive verb[fit something/somebody in, fit in something/somebody] 
① (find room for) 找到空间安放 zhǎodào kōngjiān ānfàng can you fit in another book? 你能再放进一本书吗？ 
② figurative (find time for) 安排时间见 ānpái shíjiān jiàn ‹person›; 安排时间做 ānpái shíjiān zuò ‹activity›can you fit me in at
10 o'clock tomorrow? 你能安排明天上午10点与我见面吗？ to fit in a holiday next month 下个月抽出时间去度假 fit out transitive verb 
① [fit something out] 为…提供所需物 wèi… tígōng suǒxūwù the kitchen is very well fitted out 这个厨房设备齐全 to fit out [something] as [something]; 把某物改装成某物 to fit the spare bedroom out as an office 把闲置的卧室布置成办公室 
② to fit [somebody] out with [something]; 给某人配备某物 gěi mǒu rén pèibèi mǒu wù the optician will fit you out with reading glasses 这位眼镜技师将为你配阅读用眼镜 fit together: 
A.  transitive verb to fit A and B together; 把A和B组合在一起 the tent poles have to be fitted together 帐篷支柱必须组装起来 to fit together the pieces of a puzzle literal 把拼图的图块拼好 figurative 理清难题 lǐqīng nántí 
B.  intransitive verb 组合在一起 zǔhé zài yīqǐ fit up transitive verb 
① = fit out 
② 
② [fit somebody up] BrE colloquial (incriminate) 诬陷 wūxiàn 
fit
1 
fit

▶adjective (fitter, fittest)
1 [predicative] (of a thing) of a suitable quality, standard, or type to meet the required purpose: the meat is fit for human consumption 
[with infinitive] : is the water clean and fit to drink? 
• (of a person) having the requisite qualities or skills to undertake something competently: he felt himself quite fit for battle 
[with infinitive] : Ted was ghastly pale and fit to do no more than switch channels. 
• suitable and correct according to accepted social standards: a fit subject on which to correspond. 
• [with infinitive] informal (of a person or thing) having reached such an extreme condition as to be on the point of doing the thing specified: he baited even his close companions until they were fit to kill him. 
• informal ready: well, are you fit?
2 in good health, especially because of regular physical exercise: I swim regularly to keep fit 
figurative : the measures would ensure a leaner, fitter company. 
• British informal sexually attractive; good-looking. 
▶verb (fits, fitting, fitted or fit) [with object]
1 be of the right shape and size for: those jeans still fit me 
[no object] : the shoes fit better after being stretched. 
• (usually be fitted for) try clothing on (someone) in order to make or alter it to the correct size: she was about to be fitted for her costume. 
• [no object] be of the right size, shape, or number to occupy a particular position or place: Angela says we can all fit in her car.
2 fix or put (something) into place: they fitted smoke alarms to their home. 
• (often be fitted with) provide (something) with a particular component or article: most tools can be fitted with a new handle. 
• join or cause to join together to form a whole: [no object] : it took a while to figure out how the confounded things fit together 
[with object] : many physicists tried to fit together the various pieces of the puzzle.
3 be in agreement or harmony with; match: the punishment should fit the crime. 
• (of an attribute, qualification, or skill) make (someone) suitable to fulfill a particular role or undertake a particular task: an MS fits the student for a professional career. 
▶noun the particular way in which something, especially a garment or component, fits around or into something: the dress was a perfect fit. 
• the particular way in which a thing matches something else: a close fit between teachers' qualifications and their teaching responsibilities. 
• Statistics the correspondence between observed data and the values expected by theory. 
PHRASES
(as) fit as a fiddle see fiddle. fit the bill see bill1. fit like a glove see glove. fit to be tied informal very angry: Daddy was fit to be tied when I separated from Hugh. fit to bust informal with great energy: they laughed fit to bust. see (or think) fit consider it correct or acceptable to do something: why did the company see fit to give you the job?PHRASAL VERBS fit in (of a person) be socially compatible with other members of a group: he feels he should become tough to fit in with his friends. 
• (of a thing) be in harmony with other things within a larger structure: produce ideas that fit in with an established approach. 
• (also fit into) (of a person or thing) constitute part of a particular situation or larger structure: where do your sisters fit in? fit someone/something in (or into) find room or have sufficient space for someone or something: can you fit any more books into the box? 
• succeed in finding time in a busy schedule to see someone or do something: you're never too busy to fit exercise into your life.fit someone/something out (or up) provide with the necessary equipment, supplies, clothes, or other items for a particular situation: the cabin had been fitted out to a high standard.fit someone up British informal incriminate someone by falsifying evidence against them. fit something on British try on (a garment).DERIVATIVES fitly 
ˈfitlē 
adverbORIGIN late Middle English: of unknown origin.
