flag
1 
BrE flaɡ, AmE flæɡ 

A.  noun 
① (symbol of a country etc.) 旗 qí the American flag 美国国旗 to hoist or raise or run up a flag 升旗 to fly a flag at half mast 下半旗 to wave a flag 挥舞旗子 to strike the flag 降旗表示投降 loyalty to the flag 对国家的忠诚 to wrap oneself in the flag AmE figurative 炫耀爱国热情 the ship was sailing under the Panamanian flag 该船悬挂巴拿马国旗航行 to put the flag(s) out 悬旗庆祝 to keep the flag flying 坚持传统 to fly or wave the flag (country) 表明拥护祖国 (party) 表明拥护政党 (movement) 表明拥护运动 to show the flag 露面 to strike one's flag figurative 承认失败 
② (as signal) 信号旗 xìnhàoqí a ship flying the yellow flag 悬挂检疫旗的船 semaphore/signal flags 旗语旗/信号旗 the chequered flag (in motor racing) 黑白方格旗 a warning flag 警告旗 the guard's flag 铁路信号旗 the white flag/flag of truce 白色休战旗 to show the white flag 表现出胆怯 with flags flying 英勇不屈地 
③ dated (on taxi) 空车牌 kōngchēpái the flag was down 空车牌是翻倒的 ［表示有乘客］
④ (paper badge, on map) 小纸旗 xiǎo zhǐqí wear your flag with pride! 自豪地挂起旗子！ the flags mark military positions 用小旗子标出阵地的位置 
⑤ Computing 标记 biāojì 
B.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -gg-) 
① (mark with flags) 悬旗装饰 xuán qí zhuāngshì ‹route, street›
② (mark with tab) 标示 biāoshì ‹item, text›I've flagged the most important paragraphs for you, Minister figurative 部长，我已经为您标出了最重要的段落 
③ Computing 用标记标明 yòng biāojì biāomíng ‹item, text, character, category›
C.  intransitive verb(present participle etc. -gg-) BrE Sport «official» 举旗示意犯规 jǔ qí shìyì fànguī the referee's assistant flagged immediately 助理裁判马上就举旗了 PHRASAL VERBS flag down transitive verb[flag somebody/something down, flag down somebody/something] 示意…停下 shìyì … tíngxià ‹vehicle, driver›let's flag down a taxi 我们拦一辆出租车吧 flag up transitive verb[flag something up, flag up something] 使人们对…关注 shǐ rénmen duì… guānzhù ‹problem, event, aspect›
flag
1 
flaɡ

▶noun
1 a piece of cloth or similar material, typically oblong or square, attachable by one edge to a pole or rope and used as the symbol or emblem of a country or institution or as a decoration during public festivities: the American flag. 
• used in reference to the country to which a person has allegiance: the private's heroism served as an example for every soldier under the flag. 
• a ship's country of registry. 
• a small piece of cloth, typically attached at one edge to a pole, used as a marker or signal in various sports: jumped the starter's flag, did he? 
• the ensign carried by a flagship as an emblem of an admiral's rank.
2 a device, symbol, or drawing typically resembling a flag, used as a marker: golf courses are indicated by a numbered flag on the map. 
• Computing a variable used to indicate a particular property of the data in a record.
3 US a hook attached to the stem of a musical note, determining the rhythmic value of the note. 
▶verb (flags, flagging, flagged) [with object]
1 mark (an item) for attention or treatment in a specified way: “greatfully” would be flagged as a misspelling of “gratefully.” 
• draw attention to: problems often flag the need for organizational change. 
• American Football charge (a player) with a penalty by dropping a penalty flag: a play in which he was flagged for being offside.
2 [with object] direct (someone) to go in the specified direction by waving a flag or using hand signals: have him flagged off the course. 
• (flag someone/something down) signal to a vehicle or driver to stop, especially by waving one's arm: she flagged down a patrol car. 
• [no object] (of an official in football, soccer, and other sports) raise or throw a flag to indicate a breach of the rules: the rookie cornerback managed to get flagged for three penalties in one game.
3 provide or decorate with a flag or flags. 
• register (a vessel) in a specific country, under whose flag it then sails: the flagging out of much of the fleet to flags of convenience. 
PHRASES
fly the flag (of a ship) be registered in a particular country and sail under its flag. 
• (also show or carry or wave the flag) represent or demonstrate support for one's country, political party, or organization, especially when one is abroad: he will never consider buying an import, because he likes to fly the flag. show the flag (of a naval vessel) make an official visit to a foreign port, especially as a show of strength. wrap oneself in the flag chiefly North American make an excessive show of one's patriotism, especially for political ends.DERIVATIVES flagger nounORIGIN mid 16th century: perhaps from obsolete flag ‘drooping,’ of unknown ultimate origin.
