flame 
BrE fleɪm, AmE fleɪm 

A.  noun 
① Countable and uncountableliteral 火焰 huǒyàn to be/go up in flames; 着火 to burst into flames; 突然燃烧起来 a naked flame 明火 over a low/high flame Culinary 用小火/大火 to be shot down in flames figurative «plan, suggestion» 被毁掉 to commit [somebody]/[something] to the flames; 把某人烧死/某物烧掉 
② Countablefigurative 强烈感情 qiángliè gǎnqíng to fan or fuel the flames of love 使爱情之火更为炽烈 to fan the flames of violence 煽动暴乱 an old flame colloquial 老相好 
③ Countablecolloquial (on Internet) 含辱骂内容的邮件 hán rǔmà nèiróng de yóujiàn 
B.  transitive verb 
① Culinary 在…上面浇酒并点燃 zài… shàngmian jiāo jiǔ bìng diǎnrán 
② colloquial (on ɪnternet) 向…发送辱骂性邮件 xiàng… fāsòng rǔmàxìng yóujiàn 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (burn) «fire» 燃烧 ránshāo 
② (take on colour) «cheeks, autumn leaves» 变红 biànhóng his cheeks flamed with anger/embarrassment 他气得/窘得面红耳赤 
③ figurative (flare up) «passion, anger» 爆发 bàofā PHRASAL VERB flame up intransitive verb 
① (burn high) «fire, coals» 烧得更旺 shāo de gèng wàng 
② figurative (flare up) «passion, anger» 爆发 bàofā 
flame 
flām

▶noun
1 a hot glowing body of ignited gas that is generated by something on fire: the flame of a candle 
a sheet of flame blocked my escape. 
• a thing compared to a flame's ability to burn fiercely or be extinguished: the flame of hope burns brightly here 
the sound of his laughter fanned the flame of anger to new heights. 
• a brilliant orange-red color: [in combination] : a flame-red trench coat.
2 Computing, informal a vitriolic or abusive message posted on the Internet or sent by email, typically in quick response to another message: flames about inexperienced users posting stupid messages. 
▶verb
1 [no object] burn and give off flames: a great fire flamed in an open fireplace. 
• [with object] set (something) alight: warm the whiskey slightly, pour over the lobster, and flame it. 
• shine or glow like a flame: her thick hair flamed against the light. 
• (of an intense emotion) appear suddenly and fiercely: hope flamed in her. 
• (of a person's face) suddenly become red with intense emotion, especially anger or embarrassment: Jess's cheeks flamed.
2 [with object] Computing, informal direct a vitriolic or abusive message at (someone) by posting on the Internet or sending an email: your opinions and mine are probably different, but please don't flame me. 
PHRASES
burst into flame (or flames) suddenly begin to burn fiercely: the grass looked ready to burst into flame.go up in flames be destroyed by fire: last night two factories went up in flames. in flames on fire; burning fiercely: the plane plunged to the ground in flames. old flame informal a former lover.PHRASAL VERBS flame out (of a jet engine) lose power through the extinction of the flame in the combustion chamber. 
• informal, chiefly North American fail, especially conspicuously: journalists had seared him for flaming out in the second round of the Olympics.DERIVATIVES flameless 
ˈflāmləs 
adjective. flamelike 
-ˌlīk 
adjective. flamer 
ˈflāmər 
noun (Computing).. flamy 
ˈflāmē 
adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: from Old French flame (noun), flamer (verb), from Latin flamma ‘a flame.’
