flap 
BrE flap, AmE flæp 

A.  noun 
① (on pocket) 袋盖 dàigài (of envelope) 封盖 fēnggài (of hat) 帽边 màobiān (of box) 口盖 kǒugài (of tent) 门帘 ménlián 
② (hinged section) (on table, bar) 折板 zhébǎn (of trapdoor) 活板 huóbǎn 
③ (movement of wings, sail) 拍打 pāida ; (sound of wings, sail) 拍打声 pāida shēng 
④ Aviation 襟翼 jīnyì to raise/lower the flaps 升起/降下襟翼 
⑤ colloquial (panic) 惊慌 jīnghuāng to be in a flap; 处于慌乱之中 to get into a flap; 激动起来 
B.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -pp-) 
① (move about) «bird» 振动 zhèndòng ‹wings›; «person» 挥动 huīdòng ‹arms›
② (strike lightly) 拍打 pāida ‹person, paper›to flap [something] at [somebody]/[something]; 用某物拍打某人/某物 
C.  intransitive verb(present participle etc. -pp-) 
① (move) «wings» 振动 zhèndòng ; «bird» 振翅 zhèn chì 
② (flutter, wave around) «material, sail, flag» 飘动 piāodòng ; «shutters» 摆动 bǎidòng 
③ (strike lightly at) 拍打 pāida to flap at [something]; 拍打某物 
④ (fly) «bird» 振翅飞行 zhèn chì fēixíng 
⑤ BrE colloquial (panic) 惊慌 jīnghuāng stop flapping! 不要惊慌！ 
flap 
flap

▶verb (flaps, flapping, flapped) [with object] (of a bird) move (its wings) up and down when flying or preparing to fly: a pheasant flapped its wings 
[no object] : gulls flapped around uttering their strange cries. 
• [no object] (of something attached at one point or loosely fastened) flutter or wave around: the tent bent with the gale, and the corners flapped furiously. 
• wave (something) around or at something or someone: she flapped the duster angrily 
she began flapping her arms to drive away the permeating cold. 
• strike or attempt to strike (something) loosely with one's hand, a cloth, or a broad implement, especially to drive it away. 
▶noun
1 a piece of something thin, such as cloth, paper, or metal, hinged or attached only on one side, that covers an opening or hangs down from something: the flap of the envelope 
he pushed through the tent flap. 
• a hinged or sliding section of an aircraft wing used to control lift: flaps are normally moved by the hydraulics 
a final approach at sixty knots with 45° of flap. 
• a large broad mushroom. 
• Phonetics a type of consonant produced by allowing the tip of the tongue to strike the alveolar ridge very briefly.
2 a movement of a wing or an arm from side to side or up and down: the surviving bird made a few final despairing flaps.
3 [in singular] informal a state of agitation; a panic: they're in a flap over who's going to take Henry's lectures. DERIVATIVES flappy adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: probably imitative.
