flare 
BrE flɛː, AmE flɛr 

A.  noun 
① (of match, lighter, firework) 火光 huǒguāng 
② (on highway, runway) 照明灯 zhàomíngdēng 
③ Military (to illuminate) 照明弹 zhàomíngdàn (warning signal) 闪光警告信号 shǎnguāng jǐnggào xìnhào 
④ Aviation, Nautical (distress signal) 闪光报警信号 shǎnguāng bàojǐng xìnhào 
⑤ Astronomy 耀斑 yàobān 
⑥ Clothing 呈喇叭形展开 chéng lǎbaxíng zhǎnkāi a skirt with a slight flare 微喇裙 
B.  flares noun plural (trousers) 喇叭裤 lǎbakù a pair of flares 一条喇叭裤 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (burn briefly) «match, torch» 闪光 shǎnguāng ; «sunspot» 闪耀 shǎnyào 
② figurative (erupt) «tempers, violence» 爆发 bàofā 
③ (widen) «sleeves, skirt, trouser legs» 呈喇叭形展开 chéng lǎbaxíng zhǎnkāi 
④ (dilate) «nostrils» 张大 zhāngdà 
D.  transitive verb 使…呈喇叭形展开 shǐ… chéng lǎbaxíng zhǎnkāi ‹skirt, trouser legs›a flared skirt 喇叭裙 PHRASAL VERB flare up intransitive verb 
① (burn brightly) «candle, gas jet» 旺烧起来 wàng shāo qilai the fire flared up as I put on more sticks 我加了些柴枝，火旺了起来 
② figurative (erupt) «trouble, epidemic, violence» 爆发 bàofā the unrest flared up into a real revolt 动荡的局面激化为真正的叛乱 
③ figurative (become angry) 突然发怒 tūrán fānù he suddenly flared up 他突然发起火来 
④ (recur) «disease, pain» 复发 fùfā my back trouble has flared up again 我的背又疼起来了 
flare 
fler

▶noun
1 a sudden brief burst of bright flame or light: the flare of the match lit up his face. 
• a device producing a bright flame, used especially as a signal or marker: a helicopter spotted a flare set off by the crew 
[as modifier] : a flare gun. 
• [in singular] a sudden burst of intense emotion: she felt a flare of anger within her. 
• Astronomy a sudden explosion in the chromosphere and corona of the sun or another star, resulting in an intense burst of radiation. See also solar flare. 
• Photography extraneous illumination on film caused by internal reflection in the camera.
2 [in singular] a gradual widening, especially of a skirt or pants: as you knit, add a flare or curve a hem. 
• an upward and outward curve of a vessel's bow, designed to throw the water outward when under way. 
▶verb [no object]
1 burn with a sudden intensity: the blaze across the water flared 
the bonfire crackled and flared up. 
• (of a light or a person's eyes) glow with a sudden intensity: her eyes flared at the stinging insult. 
• (of an emotion) suddenly become manifest in a person or their expression: alarm flared in her eyes 
tempers flared. 
• (flare up) (of an illness or chronic medical complaint) recur unexpectedly and cause further discomfort: Tracy's pain has flared up again, this time almost beyond enduring. 
• (especially of an argument, conflict, or trouble) suddenly become more violent or intense: a recurrent border dispute flared up again. 
• (flare up) (of a person) suddenly become angry: she flared up, shouting at Jeff.
2 (often as adjective flared) gradually become wider at one end: a flared skirt 
the dress flared out into a huge train. 
• (of a person's nostrils) dilate: his head lifted, his nostrils flaring. 
• [with object] (of a person) cause (the nostrils) to dilate. ORIGIN mid 16th century (in the sense ‘spread out (one's hair)’): of unknown origin. Current senses date from the 17th cent.
