flash 
BrE flaʃ, AmE flæʃ 

A.  noun 
① Countable(sudden burst of light or flame) 闪光 shǎnguāng a flash of [something]; 某物的闪光 a flash of lightning 一道闪电 a flash of colour 一抹亮色 in or like a flash figurative 瞬间 quick as a flash 飞快 to be a flash in the pan 昙花一现 
② Countablefigurative (sudden idea, feeling) 闪现 shǎnxiàn a flash of [something]; 某物的闪现 a flash of merriment/laughter 突然的一阵欢喜/笑声 a flash of inspiration 灵感的闪现 a flash of understanding 顿悟 in a flash of intuition, she realized that … 她突然有个直觉，认为… it came to him in a flash that … 他突然想到… 
③ Uncountable and countablePhotography 闪光灯 shǎnguāngdēng with automatic flash 备有自动闪光灯 a built-in flash 内置闪光灯 
④ CountableTelevision, Radio 简讯 jiǎnxùn 
⑤ Countable BrE Military (on uniform) 肩章 jiānzhāng 
⑥ Countable(light patch or stripe) 一小块亮色 yīxiǎokuài liàngsè a horse with a white flash on its nose 鼻子上有一块白斑的马 
⑦ Uncountablecolloquial (ostentation) 炫耀 xuànyào eighties designer flash 80年代设计师华丽炫耀的设计风格 
⑧ Flash UncountableComputing 矢量动画 shǐliàng dònghuà 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (shine) «light, jewel, metal, glass» 闪光 shǎnguāng ; «indicator, warning light» 闪烁 shǎnshuò his right indicator was flashing, but he turned left 他的右转向灯在闪，但他却向左转了 
② figurative (blaze) «eyes» 闪耀 shǎnyào her eyes flashed as she turned to face her tormentors 她转身面对拷打自己的人时，眼中冒出怒火 
③ (move quickly, appear suddenly) «person, animal» 飞奔 fēibēn ; «vehicle» 飞驰 fēichí ; figurative «look, news, memory» 闪现 shǎnxiàn ; «time» 飞逝 fēishì the car flashed past us 那辆汽车从我们旁边飞驰而过 a sudden thought flashed through her mind 她脑子里突然闪过一个想法 to flash through [somebody's] mind that …/to do [something] 某人脑中闪现…的念头/做某事的念头 
④ colloquial (expose oneself) 露阴 lù yīn 
C.  transitive verb 
① (shine) 使…闪光 shǐ… shǎnguāng ‹light, mirror›stop flashing that torch at me/in my eyes 别用手电闪我/我的眼睛 why is that car flashing its headlights at us? 那辆车为什么朝咱们闪车头灯？ 
② (communicate by flashing light) 用车灯发出 yòng chēdēng fāchū ‹signal, message›; 用车灯向…发信号 yòng chēdēng xiàng… fā xìnhào ‹person, vehicle›the oncoming car flashed him a warning 迎面而来的汽车向他闪灯发出警告 the police car flashed them, and they had to pull in colloquial 警车向他们闪灯，于是他们不得不靠路边停下 
③ figurative (send) 闪现出 shǎnxiàn chū ‹smile, warning, anger, resentment›to flash [something] at [somebody]; 向某人闪现出某物 she flashed a glance in his direction 她朝他那边瞥了一眼 he flashed her an angry look 他愤怒地看了她一眼 her eyes flashed fire 她眼冒怒火 
④ (transmit) 迅速发出 xùnsù fāchū ‹message, image›they flashed the news straight to their head office 他们迅速把这条新闻直接发往总部 the election results were flashed on the screen 选举结果显示在屏幕上 
⑤ colloquial (show) 亮出 liàngchū ‹identification card, papers, money›to flash [something] at [somebody]; 向某人亮出某物 just flash a fiver at the doorman and he'll let you in 只要拿5英镑给看门人，他就会让你进去 
⑥ colloquial (show off) 炫耀 xuànyào ‹jewellery, money›to flash [something] at [somebody]; 向某人炫耀某物 
⑦ colloquial (expose oneself to) 对…露阴 duì… lù yīn 
D.  adjectiveespecially BrE colloquial 
① (fancy) 华丽的 huálì de ‹car›; 奢华的 shēhuá de ‹hotel›
② (ostentatiously rich) 炫富的 xuàn fù de ‹person›he's so flash always talking about his holidays in Barbados 他非常爱炫富，总是谈论他在巴巴多斯岛度假的事 PHRASAL VERBS flash about, flash around transitive verb[flash something about] colloquial 到处炫耀 dàochù xuànyào ‹jewellery, money›flash back 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (return) «mind, thoughts» 突然浮现 tūrán fúxiàn to flash back to [something]; 回想起某事物 
② Cinema, Television «film, scene» 闪回 shǎnhuí 
B.  transitive verb[flash back something, flash something back] 
① (send back) 闪现 shǎnxiàn ‹message, image, news›
② colloquial (say immediately) 立刻回答 lìkè huídá flash by, flash past intransitive verb «person, animal, vehicle» 飞奔而过 fēibēn ér guò ; «landscape» 掠过 lüèguo ; «time» 飞逝 fēishì the hours flashed by 时间飞逝 flash up 
A.  intransitive verb «news, message, image» 闪现 shǎnxiàn 
B.  transitive verb[flash something up, flash up something] 使…闪现 shǐ… shǎnxiàn ‹news, message, image›
flash
1 
flaSH

▶verb
1 [no object] (of a light or something that reflects light) shine in a bright but brief, sudden, or intermittent way: the lights started flashing 
(as adjective flashing) : a police car with a flashing light. 
• [with object] cause to shine briefly or suddenly: the oncoming car flashed its lights. 
• [with object] shine or show a light to send (a signal): red lights started to flash a warning. 
• [with object] give (a swift or sudden look): Carrie flashed a glance in his direction 
[with two objects] : she flashed him a withering look. 
• express a sudden burst of emotion, especially anger, with a swift or sudden look: she glared at him, her eyes flashing.
2 [with object] display (an image, words, or information) suddenly on a television or computer screen or electronic sign, typically briefly or repeatedly: suddenly the screen flashes a message. 
• [no object] (of an image or message) be displayed briefly or repeatedly on a screen: the election results flashed on the screen. 
• informal hold up or show (something, often proof of one's identity) quickly before replacing it: she opened her purse and flashed her ID card. 
• informal make a conspicuous display of (something) so as to impress or attract attention: they all flash their money around. 
• [no object] (often as noun flashing) informal (especially of a man) show one's genitals briefly in public.
3 [no object] move or pass very quickly: a look of terror flashed across Kirov's face 
the scenery flashed by 
another stray thought flashed through her mind. 
• [with object] send (news or information) swiftly by means of telegraphy or telecommunications: the story was flashed around the world. 
▶noun
1 a sudden brief burst of bright light or a sudden glint from a reflective surface: the grenade exploded with a yellow flash of light 
a lightning flash.
2 a thing that occurs suddenly and within a brief period of time, in particular: 
• a sudden instance or manifestation of a quality, understanding, or humor: she had a flash of inspiration. 
• a news flash.
3 (Flash) Computing, trademark a platform for producing and displaying animation and video in web browsers.
4 a camera attachment that produces a brief very bright light, used for taking photographs in poor light: an electronic flash 
if in any doubt, use flash 
[as modifier] : flash photography.
5 excess plastic or metal forced between facing surfaces as two halves of a mold close up, forming a thin projection on the finished object. 
▶adjective informal, chiefly British
1 (of a thing) ostentatiously expensive, elaborate, or up to date: a flash new car. 
• (of a person) superficially attractive because stylish and full of brash charm: he was carrying this money around and trying to be flash.
2 archaic relating to thieves, prostitutes, or the underworld, especially their language. 
PHRASES
flash in the pan a thing or person whose sudden but brief success is not repeated or repeatable: our start to the season was just a flash in the pan. [with allusion to the priming of a firearm, the flash arising from an explosion of gunpowder from the pan within the lock.] in (or like) a flash very quickly; immediately: she was out of the back door in a flash. (as) quick as a flash (especially of a person's response or reaction) very quickly: quick as a flash, he was at her side.PHRASAL VERBS flash back (of a person's thoughts or mind) briefly and suddenly recall a previous time or incident: her thoughts immediately flashed back to last night. flash over make an electric circuit by sparking across a gap. 
• (of a fire) spread instantly across a gap because of intense heat.ORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘splash water about’): probably imitative; compare with flush1 and splash .
