flat
1 
BrE flat, AmE flæt 

A.  adjective 
① (horizontal, level and smooth) 水平的 shuǐpíng de ‹ground, roof›; 平坦的 píngtǎn de ‹road, surface›a perfect, flat lawn 十分平坦的草坪 to be flat on one's back/face or stomach 仰面平躺着/平趴着 the sea was flat and there was no wind 海上风平浪静 as flat as a pancake 完全平的 
② (not round) 平展的 píngzhǎn de ‹stone›slim hips and a flat stomach 窄臀平腹 a flat nose 塌鼻子 some early scientists believed that the earth was flat 早期的一些科学家认为地球是平的 a pan with a flat base 平底锅 
③ (shallow) 浅的 qiǎn de ‹dish, basket, box›
④ (deflated, squashed) 瘪了的 biěle de ‹ball›my back tyre has gone flat 我的后胎瘪了 you've got a flat tyre 你有一个轮胎没气了 to squash or press or squeeze or crush [something] flat 把某物压扁 to fold/pack [something] flat 将某物折叠/包装成扁平状 
⑤ predicative (pressed close) 紧贴的 jǐntiē de with one's feet flat on the floor 双脚紧贴地板 is the wardrobe flat against the wall? 衣柜贴住墙了吗？ 
⑥ Clothing 平跟的 pínggēn de ‹shoe›a pair of sandals with flat heels 一双平跟凉鞋 
⑦ Flat Horse racing 平地赛马的 píngdì sàimǎ de ‹meeting, racecourse›the Flat season 平地赛马季节 
⑧ (no longer fizzy) 走了气的 zǒuleqì de ‹alcoholic drink, lemonade›to go flat 走了气 
⑨ BrE Electricity 电用完的 diàn yòngwán de the battery must be flat 电池肯定没电了 to go flat 电力耗尽 
⑩ (lacking emotion) 平淡的 píngdàn de ‹performance, party, tone›(lacking contrast) 反差小的 fǎnchā xiǎo de ‹photograph›his voice was flat and monotonous 他的声音平板而单调 ‘she's dead,’he said in a flat voice “她死了，”他淡淡地说 a flat shade of grey 单调的灰色 
⑪ usually predicative (insipid) 淡而无味的 dàn ér wú wèi de ‹food, drink›to taste flat 吃上去淡而无味 
⑫ (depressed) 无精打采的 wú jīng dǎ cǎi de to appear/feel/sound flat 看起来/感觉/听起来无精打采的 
⑬ Busn 不景气的 bùjǐngqì de ‹market, business›
⑭ Music (lower by a semitone) 降半音的 jiàng bànyīn de E flat 降E调 
⑮ Music (off-key) 音调偏低的 yīndiào piān dī de ‹voice, instrument, note›to go flat 音调偏低 
⑯ (absolute) 断然的 duànrán de ‹refusal, denial›; 绝对的 juéduì de ‹contradiction›she gave me a flat rejection 她断然拒绝了我 and that's flat! colloquial 就这样定了！ you're not going to the party, and that's flat! 你不能去参加聚会，没有商量余地！ 
⑰ attributive Busn 均一的 jūnyī de ‹rate, charge, wage›a flat fare of £1.50 车费一律1.5英镑 I did the work for a flat fee 我做这个工作酬劳固定 
⑱ (matt) 亚光的 yàguāng de ‹colour, surface›a flat paint 亚光漆 
⑲ Phonet 平舌的 píngshé de ‹vowel›
⑳ predicative AmE colloquial (broke) 身无分文的 shēn wú fēn wén de to be flat 一贫如洗 
B.  adverb 
① (so as to be horizontal or level) 平直地 píngzhí de to hold one's hand out flat 把手平伸 to lay the blanket flat on the floor 把毯子平铺在地板上 the bombing raid laid the village flat 空袭将这个村庄夷为平地 she knocked her opponent flat 她将对手击倒在地 to lie flat 平躺 flat on one's back/face or stomach 仰面平躺/平趴着 she hammered the metal flat 她把金属锤平 the pleats should lie flat after you have pressed them 熨烫过后这些衣褶应该很伏贴 to fall flat «joke, plan» 未达到效果 «party, celebration» 没意思 méi yìsi 
② (in close contact) 紧贴地 jǐntiē de I pressed flat against the wall 我紧靠在墙上 to rest the oars flat on the water 把桨平放在水面上 
③ Music 以降调 yǐ jiàngdiào ‹sing, play›
④ colloquial (absolutely) 断然地 duànrán de ‹turn down›she told me flat that I hadn't got the job 她直截了当地告诉我说我没有得到这份工作 he refused flat 他断然拒绝 
⑤ colloquial (exactly) 正好 zhènghǎo in … flat; 只用了… she drank the beer in five seconds flat 她仅仅5秒钟就喝完了啤酒 
C.  noun 
① (flat surface of hand, blade, oar, etc.) 平面 píngmiàn the flat of [something]; 某物的平面 he struck her with the flat of his hand 他扇了她一巴掌 the flat of a sword 剑面 
② (area of flat ground) 浅滩 qiǎntān mud/salt flats 淤泥滩/盐沼 
③ BrE (flat ground) 平地 píngdì on the flat; 在平地上 
④ especially AmE colloquial (deflated tyre) 瘪车胎 biě chētāi to get a flat 瘪了一个轮胎 
⑤ especially AmE (shoe) 平跟鞋 pínggēnxié to wear flats 穿平跟鞋 
⑥ Flat BrE Horse racing the Flat; 平地赛马 píngdì sàimǎ 
⑦ Music (note) 降半音 jiàng bànyīn (sign) 降半音符号 jiàng bànyīn fúhào 
⑧ usually plural Theatre 平面布景 píngmiàn bùjǐng 
flat
1 
flat

▶adjective (flatter 
ˈflatə(r)
, flattest 
ˈflatist
)
1 smooth and even; without marked lumps or indentations: a flat wall 
trim the surface of the cake to make it completely flat. 
• (of land) without hills: thirty-five acres of flat countryside. 
• (of an expanse of water) calm and without waves. 
• not sloping: the flat roof of a garage. 
• having a broad level surface but little height or depth; shallow: a flat rectangular box 
a flat cap. 
• (of the foot) having an arch that is lower than usual. 
• (of shoes) without heels or with very low heels.
2 lacking interest or emotion; dull and lifeless: “I'm sorry,” he said, in a flat voice 
her drawings were flat and unimaginative. 
• (of a person) without energy; dispirited: his sense of intoxication wore off until he felt flat and weary. 
• (of a market, prices, etc.) showing little activity; sluggish: cash flow was flat at $214 million 
flat sales in the drinks industry. 
• (of a sparkling drink) having lost its effervescence: flat champagne. 
• (of something kept inflated, especially a tire) having lost some or all of its air, typically because of a puncture: you've got a flat tire. 
• (of a color) uniform: the dress was a deadly, flat shade of gray. 
• (of a photographic print or negative) lacking contrast. 
• US (of paint) without gloss; matte.
3 [attributive] (of a fee, wage, or price) the same in all cases, not varying with changed conditions or in particular cases: a $30 flat fare. See also flat rate. 
• (of a denial, contradiction, or refusal) completely definite and firm; absolute: his statement was a flat denial that he had misbehaved.
4 (of musical sound) below true or normal pitch. 
• [postpositive, in combination] (of a note) a semitone lower than a specified note: the double basses' opening low E-flat 
you never have to change key from B-flat major. 
• (of a key) having a flat or flats in the signature.
5 (Flat) relating to flat racing: the Flat season. 
▶adverb
1 in or to a horizontal position: he was lying flat on his back 
she had been knocked flat by the blast. 
• lying in close juxtaposition, especially against another surface: his black curly hair was blown flat across his skull. 
• so as to become smooth and even: I hammered the metal flat.
2 informal completely; absolutely: I'm turning you down flat 
[as submodifier] : she was going to be flat broke in a couple of days. 
• after a phrase expressing a period of time to emphasize how quickly something can be done or has been done: you can prepare a healthy meal in ten minutes flat.
3 below the true or normal pitch of musical sound: it wasn't a question of singing flat, but of simply singing the wrong notes. 
▶noun
1 [in singular] the flat part of something: she placed the flat of her hand over her glass.
2 a flat object, in particular: 
• (often flats) an upright section of painted stage scenery mounted on a frame. 
• informal, chiefly North American a flat tire. 
• North American a shallow container in which seedlings are grown and sold. 
• (often flats) a shoe with a very low heel or no heel. 
• a railroad car with a flat floor and no sides or roof; a flatcar.
3 (usually flats) an area of low level ground, especially near water: the Utah salt flats. See also mudflat.
4 a musical note lowered a semitone below natural pitch. 
• the sign ♭, indicating a flat. 
▶verb (flats, flatting, flatted) [with object]
1 (usually as adjective flatted) Music, North American lower (a note) by a semitone: “blue” harmony emphasizing the flatted third and seventh.
2 archaic make flat; flatten: flat the loaves down. 
PHRASES
fall flat fail completely to produce the intended or expected effect: his jokes fell flat. fall flat on one's face fall over forward. 
• fail in an embarrassingly obvious way: the president could fall flat on his face if the economy doesn't start improving soon. (as) flat as a pancake see pancake. flat out
1 as fast or as hard as possible: the whole team is working flat out to satisfy demand 
(as adjective flat-out) : the album lacks the flat-out urgency of its predecessor.
2 informal, chiefly North American without hesitation or reservation; unequivocally: in those early days I'd just flat out vote against foreign aid 
(as adjective flat-out) : flat-out perjury.
3 lying completely stretched out, especially asleep or exhausted: she was lying flat out on her pink bath towel. that's flat informal used to indicate that one has reached a decision and will not be persuaded to change one's mind: he won't go into a home and that's flat.DERIVATIVES flattish 
ˈflatiSH 
adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: from Old Norse flatr; related to plant, platy-, plaza .
