flavour BrE , flavor AmE 
BrE ˈfleɪvə, AmE ˈfleɪvər 

A.  nounUncountable and countable
① (taste) 味道 wèidao to bring out the flavour 使出味 with a coffee flavour or a flavour of coffee 带咖啡味 
② figurative (quality) 特色 tèsè (atmosphere) 气氛 qìfēn a or the flavour of [something]; 某物的特色 the book captures the flavour of London 这本书抓住了伦敦的风情 flavour of the month colloquial (person) 短期内风靡的人 (thing) 短期内风靡的事物 
B.  transitive verb «cook, brewer» 给…调味 gěi… tiáowèi ‹food, drink›to flavour [something] with [something]; 用某物给某物调味 
flavor 
ˈflāvər 
(British flavour) 
▶noun
1 the distinctive taste of a food or drink: the yogurt comes in eight fruit flavors 
adding sun-dried tomatoes gives the sauce extra flavor. 
• the general quality of taste in a food: no other cracker adds so much flavor to the cheese. 
• chiefly US a substance used to alter or enhance the taste of food or drink; a flavoring: we use vanilla and almond flavors.
2 [in singular] an indication of the essential character of something: the extracts give a flavor of the content and tone of the conversation. 
• [in singular] a distinctive quality or atmosphere: whitewashed walls and red pantiles gave the resort a Mediterranean flavor.
3 a kind, variety, or sort: various flavors of firewall are evolving.
4 Physics a quantized property of quarks that differentiates them into at least six varieties (up, down, charmed, strange, top, bottom). Compare with color. 
▶verb [with object] alter or enhance the taste of (food or drink) by adding a particular ingredient: they use a wide range of spices to flavor their foods 
chunks of chicken flavored with herbs. 
• give a distinctive quality to: the faint exasperation that had flavored her tone. 
PHRASES
flavor of the month a person or thing that enjoys a short period of great popularity: social networking is no longer the flavor of the month among investors.DERIVATIVES flavorful 
ˈflāvərfəl 
adjective. flavorless 
ˈflāvərləs 
adjective. flavorsome 
ˈflāvərsəm 
adjectiveORIGIN late Middle English (in the sense ‘fragrance, aroma’): from Old French flaor, perhaps based on a blend of Latin flatus ‘blowing’ and foetor ‘stench’; the -v- appears to have been introduced in Middle English by association with savor. Sense
1 of the noun dates from the late 17th century.
