flesh 
BrE flɛʃ, AmE flɛʃ 
nounUncountable
① (of human, animal) 肉 ròu they were eating human flesh 那时他们在吃人肉 to put flesh on [something] 加细节于某物 it makes my flesh creep or crawl 那让我心惊肉跳 
② (of fruit) 果肉 guǒròu ; (of vegetable) 可食部分 kě shí bùfen 
③ (skin) 皮肤 pífū she revealed a lot of flesh 她穿着暴露 
④ (body) 肉体 ròutǐ flesh and blood 血肉之躯 one's own flesh and blood figurative 亲骨肉 to see [somebody] in the flesh; 见到某人本人 she's never seen him in the flesh, only on the television 她从未见过他本人，只是在电视上见过 
⑤ (human body and its needs) the flesh 肉欲 ròuyù pleasures of the flesh 肉欲之乐 ròuyù zhī lè sins of the flesh archaic humorous 肉欲之罪 ròuyù zhī zuì (the spirit is willing but) the flesh is weak 心有余而力不足 xīn yǒuyú ér lì bùzú PHRASAL VERB flesh out transitive verb[flesh something out], [flesh out something] 充实 chōngshí ‹speech, essay›she fleshed out her speech with some statistics 她用一些统计数据充实自己的讲话 
flesh 
fleSH

▶noun the soft substance consisting of muscle and fat that is found between the skin and bones of an animal or a human: she grabbed Anna's arm, her fingers sinking into the flesh. 
• the flesh of an animal, regarded as food: the food an animal eats will affect the taste and texture of its flesh 
[in combination] : a flesh-eater. 
• the pulpy substance of a fruit or vegetable, especially the part that is eaten: halve the avocados and scrape out the flesh. 
• the skin or surface of the human body with reference to its color, appearance, or sensual properties: she gasped as the cold water hit her flesh. 
• (the flesh) the human body and its physical needs and desires, especially as contrasted with the mind or the soul: I have never been one to deny the pleasures of the flesh. 
• a light brownish pink colour: acrylic paints in flesh, red, and pink. 
▶verb
1 [no object] (flesh out) put weight on: he had fleshed out to a solid 220 pounds. 
• [with object] (flesh something out) add more details to something that exists only in a draft or outline form: the theorists have fleshed out a variety of scenarios.
2 [with object] British give (a hound or hawk) a piece of the flesh of game that has been killed in order to incite it. 
• literary initiate (someone) in bloodshed or warfare: he fleshed his troops by indulging them with enterprises against the enemy's posts.
3 [with object] (often as noun fleshing) remove the flesh adhering to (a skin or hide): after fleshing, the hide is soaked again. 
PHRASES
all flesh all human and animal life. go the way of all flesh die or come to an end. in the flesh in person rather than via a telephone, a movie, the written word, or other means: they decided that they should meet Alexander in the flesh. lose flesh archaic become thinner. make someone's flesh crawl (or creep) another way of saying make someone's skin crawl (see skin). one flesh used to refer to the spiritual and physical union of two people in a relationship, especially marriage: my body is his, his is mine: one flesh. [with biblical allusion to Gen. 2:24.] put flesh on (the bones of) something add more details to something that exists only in a draft or outline form: he has yet to put flesh on his “big idea.” put on flesh put on weight. sins of the flesh archaic or humorous sins related to physical indulgence, especially sexual gratification.DERIVATIVES fleshless 
ˈfleSHləs 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English flǣsc, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch vlees and German Fleisch .
