flexible 
BrE ˈflɛksɪb(ə)l, AmE ˈflɛksəb(ə)l 
adjective 
① (pliable) 柔韧的 róurèn de ‹tubing, plastic›; 柔软的 róuruǎn de ‹wire, sole›
② (adaptable) 可变通的 kě biàntōng de ‹arrangement, timetable, people›; 弹性的 tánxìng de ‹working hours›; 灵活的 línghuó de ‹plan, attitudes›to be flexible about or over [something]; 在某方面很灵活 whatever you decide, I'm flexible 无论你作何决定，我都可以 
flexible 
▶adjective
1 flexible tubing: pliable, supple, bendable, pliant, plastic; elastic, stretchy, whippy, springy, resilient, bouncy; informal bendy. ANTONYMS rigid.
2 a flexible arrangement: adaptable, adjustable, variable, versatile, open-ended, open, free. ANTONYMS inflexible.
3 the need to be flexible toward tenants: accommodating, amenable, willing to compromise, cooperative, tolerant, easygoing. ANTONYMS intransigent.CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD flexible, elastic, limber, pliable, pliant, resilient, supple If you can bend over and touch your toes, you are flexible. But a dancer or gymnast is limber, an adjective that specifically applies to a body that has been brought into condition through training (to stay limber, she did yoga every day). Flexible applies to whatever can be bent without breaking, whether or not it returns to its original shape (a flexible plastic hose; a flexible electrical conduit) ; it does not necessarily refer, as limber does, to the human body. Unlike flexible, resilient implies the ability to spring back into shape after being bent or compressed, or to recover one's health or spirits quickly (so young and resilient that she was back at work in a week). Elastic is usually applied to substances or materials that are easy to stretch or expand and that quickly recover their shape or size (pants with an elastic waist), while supple is applied to whatever is easily bent, twisted, or folded without breaking or cracking (a soft, supple leather). When applied to the human body, supple suggests the ability to move effortlessly. Pliant and pliable may be used to describe either people or things that are easily bent or manipulated. Pliant suggests a tendency to bend without force or pressure from the outside, while pliable suggests the use of force or submission to another's will. A pliant person is merely adaptable, but a pliable person is easy to influence and eager to please.These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
