flight 
BrE flʌɪt, AmE flaɪt 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(flying) 飞 fēi the history of space flight 航天史 in flight 在飞行的 birds in flight 飞翔的鸟 
② Countable(of bird, insect, projectile) (movement) 飞行 fēixíng (distance) 飞行距离 fēixíng jùlí (path) 飞行路线 fēixíng lùxiàn the flight of [something]; 某物的飞行轨迹 
③ Countable(journey by air) 空中航行 kōngzhōng hángxíng a smooth/comfortable/bumpy flight 顺利的/舒适的/颠簸的航行 a direct flight 直航 a maiden/test flight 首航/试航 a reconnaissance/scheduled/solo flight 侦察飞行/定期航班/单人飞行 to take a flight from London to Sydney 由伦敦乘飞机前往悉尼 have a good flight! 祝你飞行旅途愉快！ what's our flight number? 我们的航班号是多少？ 
④ Countable(aircraft) 班机 bānjī all incoming flights were diverted 所有到港的班机都改变了航线 
⑤ CountableAerospace (journey through space) 宇宙飞行 yǔzhòu fēixíng a crewed or manned flight 载人宇航 
⑥ Countable(group) (of birds, insects, angels) 飞行的一群 fēixíng de yī qún (of arrows) 齐射的一组 qí shè de yī zǔ a flight of arrows 齐发的箭 flights of migrating swans 迁徙飞行的天鹅群 in the top or first flight 顶尖的 
⑦ CountableAviation, Military (air force unit) 空军小队 kōngjūn xiǎoduì 
⑧ Countablefigurative (of imagination, rhetoric) 奔放 bēnfàng flight(s) of [something]; 某物的迸发 a flight of fancy 奇思怪想 
⑨ Countable(of steps, stairs, terraces) 一段 yī duàn (of canal locks) 一系列 yīxìliè a flight of locks 一系列船闸 a short/steep flight of stairs 一小段楼梯/一段陡峭的楼梯 
⑩ CountableSport (of hurdles) 一组跨栏 yī zǔ kuàlán 
⑪ CountableSport (tail) (of dart) 镖尾 biāowěi (of arrow) 箭尾 jiànwěi 
⑫ Uncountable and countable(fleeing) 逃走 táozǒu in a dangerous situation, would you prefer flight to fight? 在情况危险时，你会宁愿逃走而不反抗吗？ flight from [something]; 从…的逃离 to put [somebody] to flight formal 迫使某人逃跑 to take (to) flight 逃跑 in [somebody's] flight 在某人逃走的过程中 the flight of capital abroad 资本外撤 
⑬ Uncountable(movement, passage) 移动 yídòng in full flight 全力奔逃 the striker was brought down in full flight 这名前锋在飞速奔跑时被撞倒在地 the speaker was in full flight when … 演讲者正说得起劲，这时… the rapid flight of time 时光的飞逝 
B.  transitive verb BrE Sport (football) 把…踢出漂亮的弧线 bǎ… tīchū piàoliang de húxiàn ‹ball›(cricket) 把…击出漂亮的弧线 bǎ… jīchū piàoliang de húxiàn ‹ball›
flight 
flīt

▶noun
1 the action or process of flying through the air: an eagle in flight 
the history of space flight. 
• an act of flying; a journey made through the air or in space, especially a scheduled journey made by an airline: I got the first flight. 
• the movement or trajectory of a projectile or ball through the air. 
• [as modifier] relating to or denoting archery in which the main concern is shooting long distances: short, light flight arrows. 
• literary swift passage of time: the never-ending flight of future days.
2 a group of creatures or objects flying together, in particular: 
• a flock or large body of birds or insects in the air, especially when migrating: flights of Canada geese. 
• a group of aircraft operating together, especially an air force unit of about six aircraft: a refueling mission in which his crew topped off three flights of four F-16A jets.
3 the action of fleeing or attempting to escape: refugees on the latest stage of their flight from turmoil.
4 a series of steps between floors or levels: she has to come up four flights of stairs to her apartment. 
• a series of hurdles across a racetrack. 
• a closely spaced sequence of locks in a canal.
5 an extravagant or far-fetched idea or account: ignoring such ridiculous flights of fancy.
6 the tail of a dart. 
▶verb [with object]
1 shoot (wildfowl) in flight: (as noun flighting) : duck and geese flighting.
2 British (in soccer, cricket, etc.) deliver (a ball) with well-judged trajectory and pace: he flighted a free kick into the box. 
PHRASES
in full flight escaping as fast as possible. 
• having gained momentum in a run or activity: when this jazz pianist is in full flight he can be mesmerizing. put someone/something to flight cause someone or something to flee: a soldier who held off, and eventually put to flight, waves of attackers. take flight
1 (of a bird) take off and fly: the whole flock took flight 
figurative : she entered the company after a year's apprenticeship, and her career took flight.
2 flee: noise that would prompt a spooked horse to take flight.ORIGIN Old English flyht ‘action or manner of flying,’ of Germanic origin; related to Dutch vlucht and fly1. This was probably merged in Middle English with an unrecorded Old English word related to German Flucht and to flee, which is represented by sense
3 of the noun .
