float 
BrE fləʊt, AmE floʊt 

A.  intransitive verb 
① (be suspended on liquid, in air) «swimmer, object» 浮 fú wood floats 木头可以浮起来 he was floating on his back 他仰面浮在水上 
② (move on liquid or in air) «ship, log, swimmer» 漂浮 piāofú ; «feather, smoke, music» 飘浮 piāofú ; figurative «ideas, visions» 浮现 fúxiàn the body floated (back) up to the surface 尸体浮上水面 clouds floated across the sky 云在空中飘过 thoughts of lazy summer afternoons floated through his head figurative 慵懒夏日午后的种种思绪浮现在他的脑海中 the faint sound of voices came floating across the water 微弱的说话声从水面的另一端飘来 
③ (move gracefully) 飘然走动 piāorán zǒudòng she floated down the stairs 她飘然走下台阶 
④ Finance «currency» 浮动 fúdòng 
B.  transitive verb 
① (suspend) 使…浮起 shǐ… fúqǐ ‹vessel, raft, log›to float the cream on top of the soup 使奶油浮在汤的表面 
② (cause to move) «current, person» 使…漂流 shǐ… piāoliú ‹boat, cargo, feather›the trees are cut down, then floated downstream to the sawmill 这些树被砍倒后顺流而下漂到锯木厂 
③ figurative (propose) 提出 tíchū ‹idea, project›
④ Finance (offer shares in) «person, company» 发行 fāxíng ‹shares, securities›; 使…上市 shǐ… shàngshì ‹company›
⑤ Finance (allow to vary) «government, country» 使…浮动 shǐ… fúdòng ‹currency›
C.  noun 
① Fishing 浮子 fúzi 
② BrE (swimmer's aid) 浮板 fúbǎn 
③ (in cistern, carburettor) 浮球 fúqiú 
④ Aviation 浮筒 fútǒng 
⑤ Biology 浮囊 fúnáng 
⑥ (decorated truck) 彩车 cǎichē a carnival float 狂欢节彩车 
⑦ BrE Auto 电动车 diàndòngchē a milk float 送奶电动车 
⑧ BrE (for expenses, in till) 备用零钱 bèiyòng língqián a cash float 备用现金 
⑨ Construction 镘刀 màndāo 
⑩ AmE Culinary 加冰激凌的饮料 jiā bīngjīlíng de yǐnliào PHRASAL VERBS float about, float around intransitive verb 
① (circulate) «idea, news» 传播 chuánbō there's a rumour floating about that he's going to be sacked 有传闻说他将被解雇 
② (move aimlessly) 闲荡 xiándàng (move gracefully) 飘然走动 piāorán zǒudòng he just floats about the house all day 他只是整天在屋子里游荡 grandiose ideas were floating about in his mind figurative 他的头脑中浮现着一些华而不实的构想 
③ colloquial (be somewhere) «pen, glasses» 在近处 zài jìnchù have you seen my keys floating about? 你在附近看见我的钥匙了吗？ float away intransitive verb 
① (on water) «vessel, leaf» 漂走 piāozǒu ; (in air) «balloon, feather, leaf» 飘走 piāozǒu 
② (move) «person» 飘然离去 piāorán líqù float off 
A.  intransitive verb 
① = float away 
② Nautical «vessel, wreck» 浮离 fúlí we had to wait for the tide so that we could float off the reef 我们必须等到涨潮才能浮离暗礁 
B.  transitive verb[float something off, float off something] «sailor, tide» 使…浮离 shǐ… fúlí ‹vessel, wreck›
float 
flōt

▶verb [no object]
1 rest or move on or near the surface of a liquid without sinking: she relaxed, floating gently in the water. 
• [with object] cause (a buoyant object) to rest or move on the surface of a liquid without sinking: trees were felled and floated downstream. 
• be suspended freely in a liquid or gas: fragments of chipped cartilage floated in the joint.
2 [with adverbial of direction] move or hover slowly and lightly in a liquid or the air; drift: clouds floated across a brilliant blue sky 
figurative : through the open window floated the sound of traffic. 
• (float about/around) (of a rumor, idea, etc.) circulate: the notion was floating around Capitol Hill. 
• (of a sight or idea) come before the eyes or mind: the advice his father had given him floated into his mind. 
• [with object] (in sports) make (the ball) travel lightly and effortlessly through the air: he floated the kick into the net.
3 [with object] put forward (an idea) as a suggestion or test of reactions. 
• offer the shares of (a company) for sale on the stock market for the first time.
4 (of a currency) fluctuate freely in value in accordance with supply and demand in the financial markets: a policy of letting the pound float. 
• [with object] allow (a currency) to fluctuate in value. 
▶noun
1 a thing that is buoyant in water, in particular: 
• a small object attached to a fishing line to indicate by moving when a fish bites. 
• a cork or buoy supporting the edge of a fishing net. 
• a hollow or inflated organ enabling an organism (such as the Portuguese man-of-war) to float in the water. 
• a hollow structure fixed underneath an aircraft enabling it to take off and land on water. 
• a device floating on the surface of a liquid that forms part of a valve apparatus controlling flow in and out of the enclosing container, e.g., in a toilet tank or a carburetor.
2 a platform mounted on a truck and carrying a display in a parade: a carnival float.
3 a hand tool with a rectangular blade used for smoothing plaster or concrete.
4 chiefly North American a soft drink with a scoop of ice cream floating in it: root-beer floats.
5 (in critical path analysis) the period of time by which the duration of an activity may be extended without affecting the overall time for the process. 
PHRASES
float someone's boat informal appeal to or excite someone, especially sexually: Kevin doesn't exactly float her boat.ORIGIN Old English flotian (verb), of Germanic origin and related to fleet4, reinforced in Middle English by Old French floter, also from Germanic.
