floor 
BrE flɔː, AmE flɔr 

A.  noun 
① (of room) 地面 dìmiàn an earth floor BrE, a dirt floor AmE 泥土地面 a concrete/wooden floor 水泥/木质地面 to sweep/scrub/mop the floor 扫地/擦地/拖地 from floor to ceiling 从地板到天花板 at floor level 在底层 to wipe the floor with [somebody] colloquial 把某人打得一败涂地 
② (of sea, valley, cave) 底 dǐ on the ocean floor 在海底 the forest floor 森林覆被 
③ (of vehicle, lift) 底板 dǐbǎn 
④ (storey) 楼层 lóucéng the ground floor BrE 底楼 to be or get in on the ground floor figurative colloquial 从一开始就参与 the first/second/third floor BrE 二楼/三楼/四楼 AmE 一楼/二楼/三楼 yī lóu/èr lóu/sān lóu we live on the top floor 我们住在顶楼 the whole floor has or have agreed to help 这层楼的所有住户都同意帮忙 
⑤ Politics (main area of debating chamber) 议员席 yìyuánxí to speak on or from the floor; 在议员席上发言 the Speaker will now take questions from the floor 议长现在接受议员的提问 to cross the floor (of the House) BrE 转而支持对方 
⑥ Politics (right to speak) 发言权 fāyánquán to get/have/be given the floor 获得/拥有/被给予发言权 the floor is yours 你现在有权发言 to take the floor 发言 
⑦ the floor(for dancing) 舞池 wǔchí (in factory) 车间 chējiān (of Stock Exchange) 交易厅 jiāoyìtīng several couples were already on the (dance) floor 有几对已经在舞池中跳舞了 shall we take the floor? 我们跳舞吧？ the factory floor has or have voted for a strike 工人投票决定罢工 trading on the floor is brisk this morning 今天上午交易厅交投活跃 
⑧ Economics, Finance 最低额 zuìdī'é a wage floor 工资底限 to fall through the floor 跌破底限 
B.  transitive verb 
① Construction 给…铺地板 gěi… pū dìbǎn ‹room, building›to floor [something] in or with [something]; 用某物给某物铺地面 the kitchen was floored in red tiles 厨房地面铺着红色瓷砖 
② (knock down) 把…打倒在地 bǎ… dǎdǎo zài dì ‹opponent, attacker, victim›to floor [somebody] with [something]; 以某物将某人打倒在地 he floored him with a single blow 他一拳把他打倒在地 
③ colloquial (defeat) «argument, remark» 使…哑口无言 shǐ… yǎ kǒu wú yán his final words completely floored them 他最后的话使他们彻底哑口无言 
④ colloquial (stump) «remark, discovery, suggestion» 使…困惑 shǐ… kùnhuò I was floored by question five 第5题把我难倒了 
⑤ Auto colloquial 把…踩到底 bǎ… cǎi dàodǐ ‹accelerator›
floor 
flôr

▶noun
1 the lower surface of a room, on which one may walk: he dropped the cup and it smashed on the floor 
the kitchen floor. 
• the bottom of the sea, a cave, or an area of land: the ocean floor. 
• informal the ground: the best way to play is to pass the ball on the floor. 
• the minimum level of prices or wages: the dollar's floor against the yen.
2 all the rooms or areas on the same level of a building; a story: his office was on the twenty-second floor 
[as modifier, in combination] : a third-floor apartment.
3 (the floor) (in a legislative assembly) the part of the house in which members sit and from which they speak. 
• the right or opportunity to speak next in debate: other speakers have the floor. 
• (of the stock exchange) the large central hall where trading takes place. 
▶verb [with object]
1 provide (a room or area) with a floor: a hall floored in gleaming white oak 
[as adjective, in combination] (-floored) : a stone-floored building.
2 informal knock (someone) to the ground, especially with a punch. 
• baffle or confound (someone) completely: that question floored him. 
PHRASES
cross the floor see cross. from the floor (of a speech or question) delivered by an individual member at a meeting, not by a representative on the platform: questions from the floor will be invited. take the floor
1 begin to dance on a dance floor.
2 speak in a debate or assembly.ORIGIN Old English flōr, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch vloer and German Flur .
