flood 
BrE flʌd, AmE fləd 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(large amount or excess flow of water) 洪水 hóngshuǐ are you insured against flood? 你投保水灾险了吗？ to be in (full) flood literal 泛滥 fànlàn figurative 正起劲 zhèng qǐjìn the floods have made many people homeless 水灾使许多人无家可归 we had a flood in the kitchen 我们的厨房漫水了 the Flood, Noah's Flood Bible 灭世洪水 she burst into floods of tears figurative 她突然泪如雨下 
② Countablefigurative (overwhelming quantity) 大量 dàliàng flood of [something]; 大量的某物 floods of visitors poured into the exhibition 大批参观者涌入展览会 a flood of light illuminated the room 一片强光照亮了房间 a flood of words 滔滔不绝的一席话 
③ Uncountable(inflow of tide) 涨潮 zhǎngcháo to be at the flood «tide» 涨到最高点 
B.  transitive verb 
① (submerge) «river, stream» 淹没 yānmò ‹valley, plain, town›; «burst pipe» 使…灌满水 shǐ… guànmǎn shuǐ ‹house, room›the basement was flooded when a pipe burst 一根水管破裂，地下室被淹了 
② (fill to overflowing) «rain, storm» 使…泛滥 shǐ… fànlàn ‹river, stream›
③ figurative (fill or suffuse completely) «papers, letters» 大量涌向 dàliàng yǒngxiàng ; «light» 充满 chōngmǎn ‹room, stage›bills flooded her letter box 她的信箱塞满了账单 the switchboard was flooded with complaints 总机接到了大量的投诉电话 a blush flooded her cheeks 她的脸颊泛出红晕 to flood [something]/[somebody] with [something]; 以某物充满某物/某人 
④ Busn «producer» 使…充斥 shǐ… chōngchì ‹shops, country, market›to flood European markets with cheap imitations 使欧洲市场充斥着廉价的仿制品 
⑤ Auto 使…溢流 shǐ… yìliú ‹carburettor›to flood the engine with too much petrol; 因加入太多汽油而使发动机溢油 
⑥ figurative (overwhelm) «feelings, thoughts» 充溢 chōngyì childhood memories flooded his mind 童年的回忆涌上他的心头 to be flooded with [something]; 充满某物 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (become submerged) «valley, town, house» 被水淹 bèi shuǐ yān 
② (overflow) «river, tributary, stream» 泛滥 fànlàn ; «sewer, bath, washing machine» 漫水 màn shuǐ 
③ (spread, move) «tears» 涌出 yǒngchū ; «flush, blush» 涌现 yǒngxiàn the news brought people flooding into the streets 这个消息使人们涌上街头 sunlight flooded into the room 阳光洒满房间 relief flooded over him when he realized no one was hurt 知道没有人受伤后，他深感宽慰 PHRASAL VERBS flood back intransitive verb «emotions, memories, thoughts» 涌上心头 yǒngshàng xīntóu flood in intransitive verb «people, contributions, gifts» 大量涌入 dàliàng yǒngrù I threw back the shutters and let the light flood in 我猛地拉开百叶窗，让光线倾泻进来 flood out 
A.  transitive verb 
① [flood somebody out, flood out somebody] (force out) «floodwater, burst pipe» 迫使…离家 pòshǐ… lí jiā 
② [flood something out, flood out something] «water» 淹没 yānmò ‹house, room›
B.  intransitive verb «water, people» 大量涌出 dàliàng yǒngchū 
flood 
fləd

▶noun
1 an overflowing of a large amount of water beyond its normal confines, especially over what is normally dry land: in a thousand miles the flood destroyed every bridge 
people uprooted by drought or flood 
[as modifier] : a flood barrier. 
• (the Flood) the biblical flood brought by God upon the earth because of the wickedness of the human race (Gen.
6 ff.). 
• the inflow of the tide. 
• literary a river, stream, or sea.
2 an outpouring of tears or emotion: Rose burst into such a flood of tears and sobs as I had never seen. 
• a very large quantity of people or things that appear or need to be dealt with: a constant flood of callers.
3 short for floodlight. 
▶verb
1 [with object] cover or submerge (a place or area) with water: the dam burst, flooding a small town 
watching her father flood their backyard skating rink 
(as noun flooding) : a serious risk of flooding. 
• [no object] become covered or submerged with water: part of the vessel flooded 
figurative : Sarah's eyes flooded with tears. 
• (usually be flooded out) drive someone out of their home or business with a flood: most of the families who have been flooded out will receive compensation. 
• (of a river or sea) become swollen and overflow (its banks): the river flooded its banks 
[no object] : the river will flood if it gets much worse. 
• overfill the carburetor of (an engine) with fuel, causing the engine to fail to start.
2 [no object] arrive in overwhelming amounts or quantities: congratulatory messages flooded in 
his old fears came flooding back. 
• [with object] overwhelm or swamp with large amounts or quantities: our switchboard was flooded with calls. 
• [with object] fill or suffuse completely: she flooded the room with light. 
PHRASES
be in (full) flood (of a river) be swollen and overflowing its banks. 
• (be in full flood) be progressing or talking vigorously or enthusiastically: discussion was already in full flood and refused to be dammed.ORIGIN Old English flōd, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch vloed and German Flut, also to flow .
