flourish 
BrE ˈflʌrɪʃ, AmE ˈflərɪʃ 

A.  intransitive verb 
① (prosper) «business» 兴旺 xīngwàng ; «society» 繁荣 fánróng corruption flourishes when everyone is badly paid 当大家收入都很微薄时，腐败就猖獗了 
② (grow well, be healthy) «plant, organism» 茂盛 màoshèng ; «person» 健康成长 jiànkāng chéngzhǎng the family is flourishing 全家人身体都很好 
③ (thrive) «the arts, artist, school» 处于全盛时期 chǔyú quánshèng shíqī the Romantic Movement flourished while Classicism declined 浪漫主义运动盛行而古典主义衰落了 
B.  transitive verb 挥舞 huīwǔ ‹certificate, tickets, flags›
C.  noun 
① (gesture) 夸张动作 kuāzhāng dòngzuò with a flourish, she ushered them inside 她做了个夸张动作领他们进去 
② (curve) (in scrollwork) 流畅的曲线 liúchàng de qūxiàn (in handwriting) 花饰 huāshì to sign [something] with a flourish 用花体在某物上签名 
flourish 
ˈfləriSH

▶verb
1 [no object] (of a person, animal, or other living organism) grow or develop in a healthy or vigorous way, especially as the result of a particularly favorable environment: wild plants flourish on the banks of the lake. 
• develop rapidly and successfully: the organization has continued to flourish. 
• [with adverbial] (of a person) be working or at the height of one's career during a specified period: the caricaturist and wit who flourished in the early years of this century.
2 [with object] (of a person) wave (something) around to attract the attention of others: “Happy New Year!” he yelled, flourishing a bottle of whiskey. 
▶noun
1 a bold or extravagant gesture or action, made especially to attract the attention of others: with a flourish, she ushered them inside. 
• an instance of suddenly performing or developing in an impressively successful way: the Bulldogs produced a late second-half flourish. 
• an elaborate rhetorical or literary expression. 
• an ornamental flowing curve in handwriting or scrollwork: spiky gothic letters with an emphatic flourish beneath them.
2 Music a fanfare played by brass instruments: a flourish of trumpets. 
• an ornate musical passage. 
• an improvised addition played especially at the beginning or end of a composition. DERIVATIVES flourisher nounORIGIN Middle English: from Old French floriss-, lengthened stem of florir, based on Latin florere, from flos, flor- ‘a flower.’ The noun senses ‘ornamental curve’ and ‘florid expression’ come from an obsolete sense of the verb, ‘adorn’ (originally with flowers).
