fly
1 
BrE flʌɪ, AmE flaɪ 

A.  intransitive verb(past tense flew, past participle flown) 
① (move through air) «aircraft, insect, bird» 飞 fēi ; figurative literary «hope, worries, cares» 消失 xiāoshī I can't sleep with a mosquito flying around 有蚊子飞来飞去，我睡不着 to fly into [something]; 飞进某物 hopes of an early settlement have flown out of the window 早日解决争端的希望破灭了 rumours of her resignation were flying (around) 她辞职的谣言正四处流传 to fly in the face of [something] 违背某物 to fly in the face of all the evidence 与所有证据相悖 to fly in the face of danger 全然不顾危险 to fly in the face of authority 违抗权威 to fly high (ambitious) 雄心勃勃 (elated) 情绪高昂 
② Aviation, Aerospace (as passenger) [乘坐飞机或航天器] 航行 hángxíng (as pilot of aeroplane) 驾驶飞机 jiàshǐ fēijī (as pilot of spaceship) 驾驶航天器 jiàshǐ hángtiānqì have you ever flown in a helicopter? 你乘坐过直升机吗？ to fly to the moon 飞上月球 
③ (be propelled) «person, animal» 飞奔 fēibēn ; «projectile» 飞行 fēixíng ; «spark» 飞溅 fēijiàn glass flew in all directions 玻璃四处乱飞 to go flying 跌落 the contents of the cupboard went flying 碗柜里的东西掉落下来 to send [somebody]/[something] flying; 把某人打倒在地/四处乱抛某物 the blow sent him flying 这重重的一击将他打飞在地 to fly at [somebody]; (physically) 扑向某人 (verbally) 针对某人 she flew at me, kicking and punching 她扑向我，对我拳打脚踢 there's no need to fly at me every time I ask you to do something 你没必要每次我要你做事时都对我恶言相向 to let fly (at [somebody]) (with [something]); （用某物）击打（某人） figurative （用某物）攻击（某人） (yòng mǒu wù)gōngjī(mǒu rén) she let fly at him with a stream of abuse 她连声辱骂他 they let fly (with) a hail of bullets 他们射出一阵弹雨 to make the sparks or fur or feathers fly 引发激烈的争执 to fly into a rage/panic 勃然大怒/突然惊慌失措 
④ (rush, hurry) «person, animal» 飞奔 fēibēn ; «vehicle» 飞驰 fēichí I must fly! 我得快走了！ the train flew by or past 列车飞驰而过 she came flying through the door 她冲进门内 to fly open «door, box» 猛地打开 
⑤ (pass quickly) «period of time» 飞逝 fēishì time flies 时光飞逝 to fly past or by 过得飞快 
⑥ (flutter, wave) «flag, scarf» 飘扬 piāoyáng ; «cloak, hair, kite» 飘舞 piāowǔ 
⑦ archaic (flee) 逃跑 táopǎo you must fly for your life 你必须逃命 to fly from [something]; 逃离某物 
B.  transitive verb(past tense flew, past participle flown) 
① (operate) 驾驶 jiàshǐ ‹aircraft, rocket›
② (transport by air) «airline, carrier» 空运 kōngyùn ‹people, supplies›
③ (cross by air) 飞越 fēiyuè ‹the Atlantic, the Channel›we fly this route daily 我们每天飞这条航线 
④ (use for flight) 乘坐…的飞机 chéngzuò… de fēijī ‹company, airline›; 乘坐 chéngzuò ‹aircraft, model›
⑤ (travel by air) «person, aircraft, bird, insect» 飞行 fēixíng ‹distance›we flew thousands of miles 我们飞了好几千英里 
⑥ (cause to fly) 使飞行 shǐ fēixíng to fly a kite 放风筝 a group of small boys flying their model aeroplanes 一群放飞飞机模型的小男孩 
⑦ (display) «ship, building, organization» 悬挂 xuánguà ‹flag, ensign›
⑧ (raise) 升 shēng ‹flag›
C.  noun 
① (in men's clothes) (zip) 裤子拉链 kùzi lāliàn (row of buttons) 裤子钮扣 kùzi niǔkòu (opening) 前裆开口 qiándāng kāikǒu 
② (flap on tent) 帐篷的门帘 zhàngpeng de ménlián 
D.  flies noun plural 
① BrE = 
C. 
① 
② Theatre the flies 吊景区 diàojǐngqū PHRASAL VERBS fly away intransitive verb «bird, insect, bat» 飞走 fēizǒu all your cares will fly away figurative 你所有的烦恼都会烟消云散 fly in 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (enter or arrive using wings) «aircraft, bird, insect» 飞来 fēilai 
② (arrive) «aircraft, pilot» 抵达 dǐdá ; «passenger» 乘飞机到达 chéng fēijī dàodá 
B.  transitive verb[fly somebody/something in, fly in somebody/something] 用飞机运来 yòng fēijī yùnlai ‹person, supplies›fly off intransitive verb 
① (leave using wings) «aircraft, bird, insect» 飞走 fēizǒu 
② Aviation «passenger» 乘飞机离开 chéng fēijī líkāi we're flying off tomorrow 明天我们将乘飞机离开 
③ (come off) «hat, roof, top» 脱落 tuōluò fly out 
A.  intransitive verb 
① Aviation 乘飞机去 chéng fēijī qù 
② (extend) «flag» 飘扬 piāoyáng ; «cloak, hair, kite» 飘舞 piāowǔ 
B.  transitive verb[fly somebody/something out, fly out somebody/something] 用飞机运走 yòng fēijī yùnzǒu ‹person, supplies›
fly
1 
flī

▶verb (flies 
flīz
, flying; past flew 
flo͞o
; past participle flown 
flōn
) [no object]
1 (of a bird or other winged creature) move through the air under control: close the door or the moths will fly in 
the bird can fly enormous distances. 
• (of an aircraft or its occupants) travel through the air: I fly back to New York this evening. 
• [with object] control the flight of (an aircraft); pilot. 
• [with object] transport in an aircraft: helicopters flew the injured to a hospital. 
• [with object] accomplish (a purpose) in an aircraft: pilots trained to fly combat missions. 
• [with object] release (a bird) to fly, especially a hawk for hunting or a pigeon for racing.
2 move or be hurled quickly through the air: balls kept flying over her hedge 
he was sent flying by the tackle. 
• [with adverbial of direction] (past flied) Baseball hit a ball high into the air: Gwynn flied to left. 
• (past flied) (fly out) Baseball (of a batter) be put out by hitting a fly ball that is caught. 
• [with adverbial of direction] go or move quickly: she flew along the path. 
• informal depart hastily: I must fly! 
• (of time) pass swiftly: how time flies! 
• (of a report) be circulated among many people: rumors were flying around Chicago. 
• (of accusations or insults) be exchanged swiftly and heatedly: the accusations flew thick and fast.
3 [with adverbial] (especially of hair) wave or flutter in the wind: they were running, hair flying everywhere. 
• (with reference to a flag) display or be displayed, especially on a flagpole: flags were flying at half-mast.
4 archaic flee; run away: those that fly may fight again. 
• [with object] flee from; escape from in haste: you must fly the country for a while.
5 North American informal be successful: that idea didn't fly with most other council members. 
▶noun (plural flies)
1 (British often flies) an opening at the crotch of a pair of pants, closed with a zipper or buttons and typically covered with a flap. 
• a flap of material covering the opening or fastening of a garment or of a tent: [as modifier in combination] : a fly-fronted shirt.
2 (the flies) the space over the stage in a theater.
3 Baseball short for fly ball.
4 (plural usually flys) British & historical a one-horse hackney carriage. 
PHRASES
fly the coop informal make one's escape. fly the flag see flag1. fly high be very successful; prosper: that young man is the sort to fly high. fly in the face of be openly at variance with (what is usual or expected): a need to fly in the face of convention. fly into a rage (or temper) become suddenly or violently angry.fly the nest (of a young bird) leave its nest on becoming able to fly. 
• informal (of a young person) leave their parents' home to set up home elsewhere. fly off the handle informal lose one's temper suddenly and unexpectedly. [figuratively, with reference to the loose head of an ax.] go fly a kite [in imperative] North American informal go away. on the fly while in motion or progress: his deep shot was caught on the fly. 
• Computing during the running of a computer program without interrupting the run.PHRASAL VERBS fly at attack (someone) verbally or physically: Robbie flew at him, fists clenched. 
• (of a hawk) pursue and attack, or habitually pursue (prey). 
• (fly a hawk at) send a hawk to pursue and attack (prey).DERIVATIVES flyable adjectiveORIGIN Old English flēogan, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch vliegen and German fliegen, also to fly2 .
