fold
1 
BrE fəʊld, AmE foʊld 

A.  noun 
① (of fabric, clothing, paper) 褶 zhě (of skin) 褶皱 zhězhòu the long skirt hung in soft, loose folds 长裙裙褶柔软而宽松 she ironed the fabric to get the folds out 她把布料上的褶子熨平 folds of flesh 一层层的赘肉 
② especially BrE (hill) 山丘 shānqiū (hollow) 山洼 shānwā 
③ Geology 褶皱 zhězhòu 
B.  transitive verb 
① (crease, double) 折叠 zhédié ‹paper, umbrella, bedding›she folded the letter and put it in an envelope 她将信折好，放进信封里 a pile of folded sheets 一摞折叠好的被单 
② (for storage, carrying) 用…包 yòng… bāo ‹paper, cloth, foil›; 包 bāo ‹seeds, fragile object›to fold [something] round or around or over [something]; 用某物包住某物 to fold [something] in [something]; 把某物包在某物里 the valley was folded in mist figurative 山谷笼罩在薄雾之中 
③ (embrace) 抱 bào to fold [something]/[somebody] in one's arms 抱住某物/某人 to fold [somebody] to one's heart 把某人抱到怀里 
④ (intertwine) 交叉 jiāochā ‹arms, hands›; «bird, insect» 收拢 shōulǒng ‹wings›he folded his arms across his chest 他双臂交叉于胸前 
⑤ (bend) 盘起 pánqǐ ‹leg, tail›
⑥ Culinary 拌入 bànrù to fold [something] into [something]; 将某物拌入某物 to fold the flour into the mixture 把面粉拌入混合料 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (be collapsible) «chair, bed, bicycle» 可折叠 kě zhédié 
② (bend) «fingers» 弯曲 wānqū her hand folded over the letter before I could remove it 我还没来得及把信拿走，她就抓在手里了 
③ colloquial (fail) «business, company» 倒闭 dǎobì ; «magazine, newspaper» 停办 tíngbàn ; «project» 失败 shībài ; «play» 停演 tíng yǎn PHRASAL VERBS fold away 
A.  transitive verb[fold away something, fold something away] 将…折叠收起 jiāng… zhédié shōuqǐ ‹clothes, bedding, umbrella›
B.  intransitive verb «bed, bicycle» 可以折叠 kěyǐ zhédié fold back 
A.  transitive verb[fold back something, fold something back] 收起 shōuqǐ ‹door, shutters›; 折起 zhéqǐ ‹bedclothes›; 卷起 juǎnqǐ ‹sleeve, collar›
B.  intransitive verb «door, shutters» 可收起 kě shōuqǐ fold down 
A.  transitive verb[fold down something, fold something down] 把…折下 bǎ… zhéxià ‹corner of page, car seat, hood of pram, sofa bed, collar, flap›
B.  intransitive verb «car seat, hood of pram, sofa bed» 可向下折 kě xiàng xià zhé fold in transitive verb[fold in something, fold something in] 拌入 bànrù ‹eggs, flour, cream›fold over transitive verb[fold over something, fold something over] 翻起 fānqǐ fold up 
A.  transitive verb[fold up something, fold something up] 把…折叠起来 bǎ… zhédié qilai ‹map, bed, bicycle, umbrella›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (be collapsible) «map, bed, bicycle, umbrella» 可折叠 kě zhédié the map folds up very small 这张地图可以折得很小 
② colloquial (bend double) 弓起身子 gōngqǐ shēnzi he folded up in agony 他痛苦地蜷起身子 
fold
1 
fōld

▶verb [with object]
1 bend (something flexible and relatively flat) over on itself so that one part of it covers another: she folded all her clothes and packed all her bags. 
• (fold something in/into) mix an ingredient gently with (another ingredient), especially by lifting a mixture with a spoon so as to enclose it without stirring or beating: fold the egg whites into the chocolate mixture. 
• [no object] (of a piece of furniture or equipment) be able to be bent or rearranged into a flatter or more compact shape, typically in order to make it easier to store or carry: [with complement] : the deck chair folds flat 
(as adjective folding) : a folding chair. 
• bend or rearrange (a piece of folding furniture or equipment): he folded up his tripod. 
• [no object] (fold out) be able to be opened out; unfold: the sofa folds out. 
• Geology cause (rock strata) to undergo bending or curvature: (as noun folding) : a more active period of igneous activity caused intense folding.
2 [with adverbial] cover or wrap something in (a soft or flexible material): a plastic bag was folded around the book. 
• hold or clasp (someone) closely in one's arms with passion or deep affection: Bob folded her in his arms and kissed her.
3 [no object] informal (of an enterprise or organization) cease operating as a result of financial problems or a lack of support: the club folded earlier this year. 
• (especially of a sports player or team) suddenly stop performing well or effectively: he folded in the second round. 
• (of a poker player) drop out of a hand: an unerring knack for knowing when to fold and when to stay in. 
▶noun
1 (usually folds) a form or shape produced by the gentle draping of a loose, full garment or piece of cloth: the fabric fell in soft folds. 
• an area of skin that sags or hangs loosely. 
• chiefly British an undulation or gentle curve of the ground; a slight hill or hollow: the house lay in a fold of the hills. 
• Geology a bend or curvature of strata.
2 a line or crease produced in paper or cloth as the result of folding it. 
• a piece of paper or cloth that has been folded: a fold of paper slipped out of the diary. 
PHRASES
above (or below) the fold
1 printed in the top (or bottom) half of the front page of a broadsheet newspaper and so visible (or not visible) when the paper is folded: they're holding four column inches above the fold.
2 positioned in the upper (or lower) half of a web page and so visible (or not visible) without scrolling down the page: click-through yield on ads below the fold is lower. fold one's arms bring one's arms together and cross them over one's chest. fold one's hands bring or hold one's hands together.DERIVATIVES foldable adjectiveORIGIN Old English falden, fealden, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch vouwen and German falten .
