follow 
BrE ˈfɒləʊ, AmE ˈfɑloʊ 

A.  transitive verb 
① (move after) 跟随 gēnsuí ‹person, vehicle›the dog followed me all the way home 那只狗一路跟着我回家 his bodyguards follow him wherever he goes 他到哪儿，保镖就跟到哪儿 follow me 跟我来 to follow [somebody] in/out 跟着某人进去/出来 they'll follow us on a later flight 他们会乘较晚的航班跟上我们 
② (for surveillance) 跟踪 gēnzōng ‹person, vehicle›I think I'm being followed 我想有人在跟踪我 follow that car! 跟着那辆车！ to have [somebody] followed 派人跟踪某人 
③ (do the same as) 追随 zhuīsuí ‹person›he followed his mother to Oxford University 他走母亲走过的路，也进了牛津大学 
④ (replace) 继承 jìchéng ‹person›(succeed) 接续 jiēxù ‹action, success›she followed her 100 metres win with a gold medal in the 200 metres 在100米赛跑中获胜后，她再接再厉又获得200米赛跑的金牌 to be a hard or tough act to follow 令人望尘莫及 follow that! 赶不上吧！ 
⑤ (come after in time or in order) 接在…之后 jiē zài… zhī hòu ‹event, period of time, person, item›one misfortune followed another 不幸接踵而来 to follow [something] with [something]; 做完某事后接着做某事 we followed the training session with a swim in the pool 上完培训课后，我们接着在游泳池里游泳 the text is followed by a comprehensive index 正文后面附有一份综合索引 
⑥ (go along/alongside) «person, vehicle, path» 沿着…行进 yánzhe… xíngjìn ‹road, river›; figurative «person, behaviour, event» 按照…进行 ànzhào… jìnxíng ‹pattern, line›the border follows the river 以河为边界 the government chose to follow a more radical course of action 政府选择采取更为激进的举措 to let the disease follow its course 让这个病自然发展 
⑦ (be guided by) 遵照 zūnzhào ‹clue, instruction, tradition›; 听从 tīngcóng ‹advice›to follow the signs to the town centre 按照路标指示来到市中心 following fashion can be rather expensive 追求时尚是要花很多钱的 to follow one's instincts/heart 按照本能/意愿行事 
⑧ (imitate) 仿效 fǎngxiào ‹person, organization›to follow [somebody's] example 学某人的样 to follow [somebody] in [something]/doing [something]; 在某方面效仿某人/效仿某人做某事 to follow suit literal (in card games) 跟牌 figurative 跟着做 gēnzhe zuò 
⑨ (conform to) «film, play» 忠实于 zhōngshí yú ‹text›the translation follows the original very closely 这个译本非常忠实于原文 
⑩ (support, adhere to) 拥护 yōnghù ‹person›; 信奉 xìnfèng ‹religion, ideas, teachings›
⑪ (have a continuing interest in) 密切关注 mìqiè guānzhù ‹sport, career, stock exchange, court case, soap opera›to follow the fortunes of [somebody]/[something] 关注某人/某事物的命运 
⑫ (watch closely) 聚精会神地看 jù jīng huì shén de kàn ‹play, film›; (listen to) 倾听 qīngtīng ‹speech›
⑬ (read to oneself) 默念 mòniàn ‹text, score, service›
⑭ (understand) 理解 lǐjiě ‹argument, plot›I couldn't follow the professor's explanation 我听不懂教授的讲解 do you follow me? 你听懂我说的话了吗？ if you follow my meaning 如果你明白我的意思 
⑮ (practise) 从事 cóngshì ‹profession, hobby›to follow the teaching/medical profession 从事教育工作/医务工作 to follow an isolated life 过与世隔绝的生活 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (move after) «person, animal» 跟随 gēnsuí ; «cheque» 随后到 suíhòu dào to follow behind [somebody]/[something]; 跟在某人/某物后面 a group of children followed behind the procession 一群孩子跟在队伍后面 to follow in [somebody's] footsteps 仿效某人 invoice to follow under separate cover 发票随后另函寄到 
② (come after in time or in order) «event, period of time, course of meal» 紧接 jǐn jiē what followed can only be described as a nightmare 接下来发生的事只能用噩梦来形容 the … that followed 接下来的… there's ice cream to follow 接着有冰激凌 as follows 如下 
③ (ensue) «fight, death, success, advantage» 随后发生 suíhòu fāshēng to follow from [something]; 因某事而产生 
④ (be logical consequence) 是必然结果 shì bìrán jiéguǒ it follows that … 由此得出… she didn't come to work today, but it doesn't (necessarily) follow that she's ill 她今天没有来上班，但这并不（一定）说明她病了 that follows 那是当然 to follow from [something]; 从某事得出结论 
⑤ (understand) 理解 lǐjiě PHRASAL VERBS follow about, follow around transitive verb[follow somebody/something about] 到处跟随 dàochù gēnsuí he's been following me about all day 他整天跟在我后面 follow on intransitive verb 
① (come later) 随后到 suíhòu dào 
② (continue) «lecture, programme, person» 继续下去 jìxù xiaqu to follow on from [something]; 从某事物继续下去 
③ (in cricket) «team» 继续击球 jìxù jīqiú follow out transitive verb[follow something out, follow out something] AmE 执行 zhíxíng ‹order, instruction, rule›when I give advice I expect you to follow it out 我提建议是希望你能听从 follow through 
A.  intransitive verb «golfer, tennis player, footballer» 做随球动作 zuò suíqiú dòngzuò 
B.  transitive verb [follow something through, follow through something] 坚持完成 jiānchí wánchéng ‹project, plan, experiment›; 施行 shīxíng ‹threat›; 坚持 jiānchí ‹idea, argument›follow up 
A.  transitive verb[follow something up, follow up something] 
① (reinforce, confirm) 加强 jiāqiáng ‹effort, treatment›; 对…采取进一步行动 duì… cǎiqǔ jìnyībù xíngdòng ‹visit, programme›; 巩固 gǒnggù ‹success, achievement, advantage, lesson›to follow [something] up with [something]; 以某事物进一步巩固 
② (act on, pursue) 跟进 gēnjìn ‹advertisement, article, idea›; 追查 zhuīchá ‹clue, lead, rumour›I followed up her tip about investments 我听从了她的投资建议 
B.  intransitive verb 继续 jìxù to follow up with [something]; 进一步做某事 
follow 
▶verb
1 we'll let the others follow: come behind, come after, go behind, go after, walk behind. ANTONYMS lead.
2 he was expected to follow his father in the business: succeed, replace, take the place of, take over from; informal step into someone's shoes, fill someone's shoes/boots.
3 people used to follow the band around : accompany, go along with, go around with, travel with, escort, attend, trail around with, string along with; informal tag along with. ANTONYMS lead.
4 the KGB followed her everywhere: shadow, trail, stalk, track, dog, hound; informal tail.
5 follow the instructions: obey, comply with, conform to, adhere to, stick to, keep to, hew to, act in accordance with, abide by, observe, heed, pay attention to. ANTONYMS flout.
6 penalties may follow from such behavior: result from, arise from, be a consequence of, be caused by, be brought about by, be a result of, come after, develop from, ensue from, emanate from, issue from, proceed from, spring from, flow from, originate from, stem from. ANTONYMS lead to.
7 I couldn't follow what he said: understand, comprehend, apprehend, take in, grasp, fathom, appreciate, see; informal make head(s) or tail(s) of, get, figure out, savvy, wrap/get one's head around, wrap/get one's mind around, get the drift of. ANTONYMS misunderstand.
8 she followed her mentor in her poetic style: imitate, copy, mimic, ape, reproduce, mirror, echo; emulate, take as a pattern, take as an example, take as a model, adopt the style of, model oneself on, take a leaf out of someone's book.
9 he follows the Pacers: be a fan of, be a supporter of, support, be a follower of, be an admirer of, be a devotee of, be devoted to. ANTONYMS dislike.
PHRASES
follow through they lack the resources to follow the project through: complete, bring to completion, see something through; continue with, carry on with, keep on with, keep going with, stay with; informal stick something out. follow up I've got a hunch and I'm going to follow it up: investigate, research, look into, dig into, delve into, make inquiries into, inquire about, ask questions about, pursue, chase up; informal check out, scope out.
