foot 
BrE fʊt, AmE fʊt 

A.  noun(plural feet) 
① (of person, animal, insect) 脚 jiǎo to break a bone in one's foot 折断脚骨 my foot hurts 我的脚疼 to have sore feet 脚痛 from head to foot 从头到脚 swift/light of foot literary 步履敏捷/轻盈的 to drag/stamp/shuffle one's feet 拖着脚走/跺脚/把脚来回倒换 in (one's) bare feet 赤脚地 in one's stocking or stockinged feet 只穿袜子地 to wipe one's feet 把脚蹭干净 to get one's feet wet literal 把脚弄湿 figurative 初次涉足 chūcì shèzú on foot 步行 bùxíng to set foot in a place 进入一个地方 to be on one's feet literal 站着 figurative 恢复 huīfù to rise or get to one's feet 站起身来 to bring [somebody] to his/her/their feet 使他/她/他们站起来 to keep one's feet 站稳 to get or be under [somebody's] feet 妨碍某人 to help [somebody] to his/her/their feet 扶他/她/他们站起来 to put one foot before the other 行走 to run or rush [somebody] off his/her feet 使他/她疲于奔命 to put one's feet up colloquial 休息 I shall be only too pleased to retire and put my feet up 我非常乐于退休，放松放松 to sweep [somebody] off his/her/their feet literal 使他/她/他们站立不稳 figurative 使他/她/他们倾倒 shǐ tā/tā/tāmen qīngdǎo with his good looks and wealth he simply swept the girl off her feet 他英俊富有，简直让这个女孩神魂颠倒 to be quick on one's feet 脚步灵活 to take the weight off one's feet 坐下 to tie or bind [somebody] hand and foot 捆住某人的手脚 to wait on [somebody] hand and foot 无微不至地伺候某人 to leave somewhere feet first figurative 死着离开某地 to have smelly feet 脚臭 to have flat feet 有扁平足 my foot! colloquial dated 胡说八道！ to set [something] on foot 开始某事 to put or get [somebody]/[something] on his/her/their feet again 使他/她/他们恢复 to put or get its feet again 使某物复原 to put one's foot down colloquial 猛踩油门 figurative 坚持立场 jiānchí lìchǎng to put one's foot in it or in one's mouth colloquial 因说错话而冒犯别人 to have a foot in both camps 脚踏两只船 to put one's best foot forward (hasten) 赶快走 (do one's best) 全力以赴 (not) to put a foot wrong （不）出错 to get or start off on the wrong/right foot (with [somebody]) （和某人关系）一开始就不顺/很顺利 to catch [somebody] on the wrong foot 让某人措手不及 to have one foot in the grave figurative colloquial 已经半截入土 to be dying on one's feet 气数将尽 to be out or dead or asleep on one's feet 筋疲力尽 the boot BrE or shoe AmE is on the other foot 情况相反 to fall or land on one's feet 安然脱离困境 to sit at [somebody's] feet (as pupil or disciple) 受教于某人 to lay the blame at [somebody's] feet 归咎于某人 to stand on one's own (two) feet 自立 to have feet of clay 有致命的缺点 to get or have cold feet 胆怯起来 to shake the dust (of somewhere) off one's feet 毫不惋惜地离开（某地） to pull the rug from under [somebody's] feet 拆某人的台 to have itchy or itching feet (eager to be on the move) 总想走动 (eager to change) 迫切求变 to have two left feet 脚步不灵活 the patter of tiny feet 婴儿的脚步声 to have or keep both or one's feet on the ground figurative 实事求是 to have the ball at one's feet figurative 有机会成功 to kick with the wrong foot Scottish, Irish 信仰与周围环境格格不入 to walk/dance [somebody] off his/her feet 使他/她/他们走得/跳舞跳得筋疲力尽 not to let the grass grow under one's feet 不浪费时间 
② Zoology (of reptile, amphibian) 足 zú (of horse, cow, sheep, goat, pig) 蹄 tí (of rabbit) 脚 jiǎo (of bird, cat, dog) 爪 zhǎo (of invertebrate) (locomotive) 运动器官 yùndòng qìguān (adhesive) 吸附器官 xīfù qìguān 
③ (covering for foot of sock, stocking or tights) 足部 zú bù 
④ (of sewing machine) 压脚板 yājiǎobǎn 
⑤ (far end) (of bed, couch, grave) 放脚的一端 fàng jiǎo de yīduān (of table) 下首位置 xiàshǒu wèizhi (of list, of page, of letter) 下端 xiàduān the foot of [something]; 某物的下端 at the foot of the page 在页脚 the foot of the bed 床脚 
⑥ (lowest part) (of mountain, stairs, slope etc.) 底部 dǐbù (of lamp) 底座 dǐzuò the foot of a hill 山脚 
⑦ (of chair, table or stool) 脚 jiǎo 
⑧ (plural feet or, after a numeral foot) (measurement) 英尺 yīngchǐ
6 feet or foot long/wide/high/deep 6英尺长/宽/高/深 by the foot 以英尺为单位 
⑨ Literature 音步 yīnbù 
B.  transitive verb 
① colloquial (pay) 支付 zhīfù ‹bill, cost›
② (walk) 步行 bùxíng to foot it 步行 bùxíng 
foot 
fo͝ot

▶noun (plural feet 
fēt
)
1 the lower extremity of the leg below the ankle, on which a person stands or walks. 
• a corresponding part of the leg in vertebrate animals. 
• Zoology a locomotory or adhesive organ of an invertebrate. 
• the part of a sock or stocking that covers the foot. 
• literary a person's manner or speed of walking or running: fleet of foot. 
• [treated as plural] British historical or formal infantry; foot soldiers: a captain of foot.
2 the lower or lowest part of something standing or perceived as standing vertically; the base or bottom: the foot of the stairs. 
• the end of a table that is furthest from where the host sits. 
• the end of a bed, couch, or grave where the occupant's feet normally rest. 
• a device on a sewing machine for holding the material steady as it is sewn. 
• Botany the part by which a petal is attached. 
• the lower edge of a sail.
3 a unit of linear measure equal to
12 inches (30.48 cm): shallow water no more than a foot deep. (Symbol: ʹ) 
• [usually as modifier] Music a unit used in describing sets of organ pipes or harpsichord strings, in terms of the average or approximate length of the vibrating column of air or the string which produces the sound: a sixteen-foot stop.
4 Prosody a group of syllables constituting a metrical unit. In English poetry it consists of stressed and unstressed syllables, while in ancient classical poetry it consists of long and short syllables. 
▶verb [with object] informal
1 pay (the bill) for something, especially when the bill is considered large or unreasonable.
2 (foot it) cover a distance, especially a long one, on foot: the rider was left to foot it ten or twelve miles back to camp. 
• archaic dance: the dance of fairies, footing it to the cricket's song. 
PHRASES
at someone's feet as someone's disciple or subject: you would like to sit at my feet and thus acquire my wisdom. feet of clay a fundamental flaw or weakness in a person otherwise revered. [with biblical allusion (Dan. 2:33) to the dream of Nebuchadnezzar, in which a magnificent idol has feet “part of iron and part of clay”; Daniel interprets this to signify a future kingdom that will be “partly strong, and partly broken,” and will eventually fall.] get one's feet wet begin to participate in an activity. get (or start) off on the right (or wrong) foot make a good (or bad) start at something, especially a task or relationship. have something at one's feet have something in one's power or command: a perfect couple with the world at their feet. have (or keep) one's (or both) feet on the ground be (or remain) practical and sensible: it's a very exciting time for the business but it's important that we keep our feet on the ground. have a foot in both camps have an interest or stake concurrently in two parties or sides: I can have a foot in both the creative and business camps. have (or get) a foot in the door gain or have a first introduction to a profession or organization. have one foot in the grave informal often humorous be near death through old age or illness. my foot! informal said to express strong contradiction: Efficient, my foot! off one's feet so as to be no longer standing: she was blown off her feet by the shock wave from the explosion. on one's feet standing: she's in the shop on her feet all day. 
• well enough after an illness or injury to walk around: we'll have you back on your feet in no time. on (or by) foot walking rather than traveling by car or using other transport. on the back foot British outmaneuvered by a competitor or opponent; at a disadvantage: Messi's early goal put Milan on the back foot 
the government found itself on the back foot as peaceful demonstrations continued. on the front foot British outmaneuvering a competitor or opponent; at an advantage: City were on the front foot from the word go 
the Prime Minister's bellicose performance was motivated by a desire to get back on the front foot. put one's best foot forward embark on an undertaking with as much effort and determination as possible. put one's feet up informal take a rest, especially when reclining with one's feet raised and supported. put one's foot down informal adopt a firm policy when faced with opposition or disobedience. put one's foot in it (or put one's foot in one's mouth) informal say or do something tactless or embarrassing; commit a blunder or indiscretion.set foot on (or in) [often with negative] enter; go into: he hasn't set foot in the place since the war.set something on foot archaic set an action or process in motion: a plan had lately been set on foot for their relief. Compare with afoot. the shoe (or British boot) is on the other foot the situation, in particular the holding of advantage, has reversed. sweep someone off their feet charm someone quickly and overpoweringly. think on one's feet react to events decisively, effectively, and without prior thought or planning. to one's feet to a standing position: he leaped to his feet.DERIVATIVES footless adjectiveORIGIN Old English fōt, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch voet and German Fuss, from an Indo-European root shared by Sanskrit pad, pāda,Greek pous, pod-, and Latin pes, ped- ‘foot.’
