force 
BrE fɔːs, AmE fɔrs 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(physical strength, impact) 力 lì brute force 蛮力 a force-nine gale 9级大风 to break the force of a fall/blow 减弱下落/打击的力量 the force of the earthquake 地震的强度 the destructive force of a bomb 炸弹的破坏力 
② Uncountable(coercion) 暴力 bàolì to use or employ force (against [somebody]) （对某人）使用暴力 to do [something] by force; 强行做某事 qiángxíng zuò mǒu shì the threat/use of force 武力的威胁/使用 
③ Uncountable and countablePhysics 力 lì (the) force of gravity 地心引力 
④ Uncountable and countable(effect) 影响 yǐngxiǎng out of or from force of habit 出于习惯 the forces of nature/destiny 大自然/命运的威力 the forces of evil 邪恶势力 the force of popular opinion 舆论的影响 by force of [something]; 凭借某物 by (sheer) force of numbers （全）凭人多势众 by force of circumstance(s) 因情势所迫 
⑤ Countable(strong influence) (of person) 有影响的人 yǒu yǐngxiǎng de rén (of belief, ideology) 有影响的事物 yǒu yǐngxiǎng de shìwù this country is no longer a world force 该国不再是世界上举足轻重的国家了 a force to be reckoned with or to reckon with 必须认真对待的有影响力的人 market forces 市场力 a motivating force 推动力 
⑥ Uncountable(intensity of writing, style, speech, manner) 气势 qìshì 
⑦ Countable(body of military or police) 部队 bùduì air/expeditionary/naval force 空军/远征军/海军 the police force 警察部队 the force plus singular or plural verb BrE colloquial 警察部门 
⑧ Countableplus singular or plural verb (organized group) [共同从事某种活动的] 一群人 yī qún rén our sales force 我们的销售队伍 to combine forces 联手 
⑨ Uncountable(binding effect) 效力 xiàolì to have the force of law 具有法律效力 to be in force 有效 to come into force 开始生效 
⑩ Uncountable(large numbers) 大批 dàpī in force 大批地 the students attended the protest meeting in force 大批学生参加了抗议集会 
B.  forces noun pluralMilitary 武装力量 wǔzhuāng lìliàng the armed forces 武装部队 left-wing guerrilla forces 左翼游击队 
C.  transitive verb 
① (compel, oblige) 强迫 qiǎngpò the earthquake forced the evacuation of hundreds of residents 地震迫使数百名居民撤离 to force [somebody] to do [something]; 强迫某人做某事 to force [somebody] into [something]/doing [something]; 迫使某人做某事 
② (push, thrust) 强推 qiángtuī she forced him to his knees 她摁他跪下 the minister was forced from or out of office after only three weeks 仅仅3个星期后这名部长就被迫下台 to force [somebody] into a corner literal 把某人逼到角落 figurative 使某人陷入困境 shǐ mǒu rén xiànrù kùnjìng he forced it out of her hands 他把那东西从她手中夺走 to force [something] from or out of [somebody]; 强迫某人说出某事 to force [something] down [somebody] (make eat, drink) 强迫某人吞下某物 to force a path or one's way through/into somewhere 强行通过/进入某处 the expedition had to force its way through the dense jungle 探险队不得不在浓密的丛林中披荆斩棘前进 to force an entry 强行进入 
③ (impose) 把…强加于 bǎ… qiángjiā yú ‹object, course of action, result, views›to force [something] on [somebody]; 把某事物强加于某人 I didn't want to take the money, but she forced it on me 我不想拿钱，但是她非要我拿不可 the team forced a draw on their rivals 球队逼平了对手 
④ (apply great pressure to) 强行打开 qiángxíng dǎkāi ‹door, lock›to force the or an issue 强迫对方作出决定 to force [somebody's] hand 强迫某人行动 
⑤ (make with effort) 勉强挤出 miǎnqiǎng jǐchū ‹smile›; 勉强发出 miǎnqiǎng fāchū ‹note›to force a laugh 勉强哈哈一笑 it's forcing it a bit to call him a genius 称他为天才有些牵强 
⑥ (artificially hasten) 人工加速…的生长 réngōng jiāsù… de shēngzhǎng ‹plant›; 强行加快 qiángxíng jiākuài ‹pace›don't force the engine of your new car for the first 500 miles 头500英里，不要强行加快新车的发动机转速 
⑦ (rape) 强奸 qiángjiān 
D.  reflexive verbto force oneself 
① (push oneself) 强迫自己 qiǎngpò zìjǐ to force oneself to do [something]; 强迫自己做某事 
② (impose oneself) 强行做某事 qiángxíng zuò mǒu shì [尤指强奸]to force oneself on [somebody]; 强行和某人发生性关系 PHRASAL VERBS force back transitive verb[force somebody/something back, force back somebody/something] 
① (push back) 迫使…后退 pòshǐ… hòutuì ‹crowd, person›
② (hold back) 强忍住 qiángrěnzhù ‹emotion, tears, fear, anger›force down transitive verb[force something down, force down something] 
① Aviation 迫使…降落 pòshǐ… jiàngluò ‹aircraft›
② (eat reluctantly) 硬咽下 yìngyànxia ‹food, drink›
③ (squash down) 硬塞 yìngsāi ‹contents, objects›
④ Economics 迫使…下降 pòshǐ… xiàjiàng ‹prices, demand, inflation›force in transitive verb[force somebody/something in, force in somebody/something] 
① (make room for) 把…塞入 bǎ… sāirù ‹object›; 使…挤入 shǐ… jǐrù ‹person›
② (push in) 把…压进去 bǎ… yā jinqu ‹cork›force open transitive verb [force something open, force open something] 强行打开 qiángxíng dǎkāi ‹container, hand›; 强行撬开 qiángxíng qiàokāi ‹mouth›his head ached, but he forced his eyes open with an effort 他头疼，但还是使劲睁开了眼睛 force out transitive verb[force somebody/something out, force out somebody/something] 
① (eject) 将…挤出 jiāng… jǐchū ‹person, object›the compressed air forced the cork out 压缩空气将软木塞顶了出来 the minister has been forced out of office 这名部长已被迫离职 
② (utter) 勉强说出 miǎnqiǎng shuōchū ‹reply, apology, excuse›force through transitive verb[force something through, force through something] 强行通过 qiángxíng tōngguò ‹legislation›; 强制执行 qiángzhì zhíxíng ‹policy, decision›force up transitive verb[force something up, force up something] 迫使…上升 pòshǐ… shàngshēng ‹prices, demand, inflation›
force
1 
fôrs

▶noun
1 strength or energy as an attribute of physical action or movement: he was thrown backward by the force of the explosion. 
• Physics an influence tending to change the motion of a body or produce motion or stress in a stationary body. The magnitude of such an influence is often calculated by multiplying the mass of the body by its acceleration. 
• a person or thing regarded as exerting power or influence: he might still be a force for peace and unity. 
• [in combination] used with a number as a measure of wind strength on the Beaufort scale: a force-nine gale.
2 coercion or compulsion, especially with the use or threat of violence: they ruled by law and not by force.
3 mental or moral strength or power: the force of popular opinion. 
• the state of being in effect or valid: the law came into force in January. 
• the powerful effect of something: the force of her writing is undiminished.
4 an organized body of military personnel or police: a soldier in a UN peacekeeping force. 
• (forces) troops and weaponry: concealment from enemy forces 
figurative : a battle between the forces of good and evil. 
• a group of people brought together and organized for a particular activity: a sales force. 
• (the force) informal a police department.
5 Baseball a force-out. 
• a situation in which a force-out is possible. 
▶verb [with object]
1 make a way through or into by physical strength; break open by force: they broke into Fred's house and forced every cupboard door with ax or crowbar. 
• [with object] drive or push into a specified position or state using physical strength or against resistance: she forced her feet into flat leather sandals 
figurative : Fields was forced out as director. 
• achieve or bring about (something) by coercion or effort: Sabine forced a smile 
she forced her way up the ladder. 
• push or strain (something) to the utmost: she knew if she forced it she would rip it. 
• artificially hasten the development or maturity of (a plant).
2 (often be forced) make (someone) do something against their will: she was forced into early retirement 
[with object] : the universities were forced to cut staff. 
• rape (a woman). 
• Baseball put out (a runner), or cause (a runner) to be put out, at the base to which they are advancing when they are forced to run on a batted ball: I was forced at second base as the first half of a double play. 
• (in cards) make a play or bid that compels another player to make (a particular response); make a play or bid that compels (another player) to make such a response: East could force declarer to ruff another spade. 
PHRASES
by force of by means of: exercising authority by force of arms. force the bidding (at an auction) make bids to raise the price rapidly. force someone's hand make someone do something: the exchange markets may force the Fed's hand. force the issue compel the making of an immediate decision. force the pace adopt a fast pace in a race in order to tire out one's opponents quickly. in force
1 in great strength or numbers: birdwatchers were out in force.
2 in effect; valid: the US has over $8 trillion worth of life insurance in force.PHRASAL VERBS force something down
1 manage to swallow food or drink when one does not want to: I forced down a slice of toast.
2 compel an aircraft to land: the plane might have been forced down by fighters. force oneself on/upon rape (a woman). force something on/upon impose or press something on (a person or organization): economic cutbacks were forced on the government.DERIVATIVES forceable 
ˈfôrsəb(ə)l 
adjective. forcer nounORIGIN Middle English: from Old French force (noun), forcer (verb), based on Latin fortis ‘strong.’
