forget 
BrE fəˈɡɛt, AmE fərˈɡɛt
(present participle -tt-, past tense forgot, past participle forgotten) 
A.  transitive verb 
① (not remember) 记不起来 jìbuqilai ‹face, name, date, fact›to forget how to do [something]; 记不得如何做某事 to forget [something] in the heat of the moment 盛怒之下忘记某事 forget it! (no way) 休想！ (drop the subject) 别提它了！ (think nothing of it) 不必在意！ once seen, never forgotten 一见之下，终生难忘 
② (overlook) 忘记 wàngjì ‹person, situation, appointment›I'm sorry, I always forget your birthday! 对不起，我总是忘记你的生日！ to forget to do [something]; 忘记做某事 I'm in charge and don't you forget it! 是我负责，你别忘了！ not forgetting 还包括 
③ (put out of mind) 不再想 bùzài xiǎng ‹person, event, experience›unpleasant experiences are best forgotten 最好把不愉快的经历都忘掉 
④ (leave behind) 忘记带 wàngjì dài ‹umbrella, money›
B.  intransitive verb 忘记 wàngjì an elephant never forgets 大象什么事都不会忘记 ［形容大象记忆力惊人］
C.  reflexive verb to forget oneself; 举止不得体 jǔzhǐ bù détǐ he seemed to forget himself and started to swear and shout 他好像不顾体面，开始咒骂喊叫 PHRASAL VERB forget about transitive verb[forget about somebody/something] 
① (overlook) 忘记 wàngjì ‹person, event›
② (put out of mind) 不再想 bùzài xiǎng ‹person, event, situation›if you're prepared to forget about the matter, then so am I 如果你准备不再提这件事，那么我也一样 
forget 
fərˈɡet

▶verb (forgets, forgetting; past forgot; past participle forgotten or forgot) [with object] fail to remember: he had forgotten his lines 
[with clause] : she had completely forgotten how tired and hungry she was. 
• inadvertently neglect to do, bring, or mention something: I forgot my raincoat 
[with infinitive] : she forgot to lock her door 
[no object] : I'm sorry, I just forgot. 
• put out of one's mind; cease to think of or consider: forget all this romantic stuff 
[no object] : for years she had struggled to forget about him. 
• (forget oneself) stop thinking about one's own problems or feelings: he must forget himself in his work. 
• (forget oneself) act improperly or unbecomingly. 
PHRASES
forget it
1 said when insisting to someone that there is no need for apology or thanks.
2 said when telling someone that their idea or aspiration is impracticable. not forgetting —— (at the end of a list) and also ——: we depend on them for food and shelter and clothing, not forgetting heat in the wintertime.DERIVATIVES forgetter 
fərˈɡedər 
nounORIGIN Old English forgietan; related to Dutch vergeten and German vergessen, and ultimately to for- and get .
