form 
BrE fɔːm, AmE fɔrm 
A. noun 
① Uncountable and countable(shape) (of object) 形状 xíngzhuàng (of person) 体型 tǐxíng to take or assume the form of [something] 呈现出某物的形状 
② Countable(manifestation, substance) 形式 xíngshì in the form of [something]; 以某种形式 to take the form of [something]; 以某种形式出现 not in any shape or form 不论任何形式 
③ Countable(type, kind) 类型 lèixíng form of [something]; 某物的种类 what form of government do you think will ultimately emerge? 你认为最终会出现何种政体？ 
④ Countable(document) 表格 biǎogé an application/tax form 申请表/税表 a blank form 空白表格 to fill in or fill out or complete a form 填写表格 
⑤ Uncountable(physical or mental condition) 状态 zhuàngtài in good/top form 竞技状态良好/极佳 to be on/off form 状态良好/不佳 to run or be true to form 一如既往 on present form 从目前状况看 he has shown an improvement in form recently 最近他的状态有所改善 
⑥ Uncountable and countable(of painting, building, music, literary work) 表现形式 biǎoxiàn xíngshì a sense of form 形式感 the form and content of a novel 小说的形式与内容 the historical novel is a dying literary form 历史小说是一种濒临消失的文学样式 
⑦ Uncountable(etiquette) 礼貌 lǐmào (behaviour) 习俗 xísú purely as a matter of form 纯粹依照惯例 bad/good form 礼貌/不礼貌 
⑧ Countable BrE School dated 年级 niánjí a third-form pupil 三年级学生 to move or go up into the next form 升至下一年级 Form One/Two 一/二年级 form captain/room/tutor 级长/教室/年级导师 
⑨ Uncountable and countable(prescribed set of words) 公式化语句 gōngshìhuà yǔjù in due form 以适当的惯用语言 
⑩ Countable BrE (bench) 无背长板凳 wúbèi cháng bǎndèng 
⑪ Countable BrE (of hare) 窝 wō 
⑫ Uncountable BrE slang (criminal record) 犯罪记录 fànzuì jìlù to have form (for [something]) 有（某罪行的）案底 
⑬ Uncountable and countableLinguistics 形式 xíngshì an adjectival/feminine/plural/negative form 形容词/阴性/复数/否定形式 
B.  transitive verb 
① (create) 制作 zhìzuò ‹object, artefact›; 建立 jiànlì ‹friendship, relationship›to form one's letters 组合字母 he rolled up the paper to form a ball 他将纸团成一个球 how are stalactites formed? 钟乳石是如何形成的？ please form sentences using these words 请用这些词造句 to form [something] out of [something]; 用某物制成某物 to form [something] from [something]; 由某物构成某物 how do you form the future tense? 怎样构成将来时态？ she doesn't form her words properly 她说话音不准 to form the habit of doing [something] 养成做某事的习惯 
② (make develop) «water, rain» 形成 xíngchéng ‹puddle›; «peopl» 排列成 páiliè chéng ‹queue, pattern›; 编成 biānchéng ‹group›to form words into a sentence 将这些单词组成一个句子 the general formed the troops into brigades 将军把部队编成旅 to form objects into patterns 把物体摆成图案 the workers formed themselves into unions 工人们成立了工会 
③ (conceive) 产生 chǎnshēng ‹impression, opinion›; 构想出 gòuxiǎng chū ‹plan, idea›to form an image (of [somebody]) 构想出（某人的）形象 
④ (mould) 塑造 sùzào ‹personality, taste, attitudes›influential in forming public opinion 对民意的形成颇具影响力的 
⑤ (establish) 建立 jiànlì ‹society, party, government›
⑥ (constitute) 构成 gòuchéng ‹basis›the trees form a windbreak 树木构成一道防风墙 young people formed the bulk of the protesters 年轻人占抗议者的大多数 to form (a) part of [something] 构成某物的一部分 to be formed from [something]; 由某物构成 
C.  intransitive verb «puddle, fog, cloud, idea» 形成 xíngchéng a scab had formed on his arm 他的手臂上结了痂 how do stalactites form? 钟乳石是怎样形成的？ PHRASAL VERB form up A. intransitive verb «troops, procession, band» 列队 lièduì 
B.  transitive verb[form something up], [form up something] «commander» 使…列队 shǐ… lièduì ‹troops›
form 
▶noun
1 the general form of the landscape 
form is less important than content: shape, configuration, formation, structure, construction, arrangement, appearance, exterior, outline, format, layout, design.
2 the human form: body, shape, figure, stature, build, frame, physique, anatomy; informal vital statistics.
3 the infection takes different forms: manifestation, appearance, embodiment, incarnation, semblance, shape, guise.
4 sponsorship is a form of advertising: kind, sort, type, class, classification, category, variety, genre, brand, style; species, genus, family.
5 put the mixture into a form: mold, cast, shape, matrix, die.
6 what is the form here? etiquette, social practice, custom, usage, use, modus operandi, habit, wont, protocol, procedure, rules, convention, tradition, fashion, style; formal praxis.
7 you have to fill in a form: questionnaire, document, coupon, paper, sheet.
8 in top form: fitness, condition, fettle, shape, trim, health.
▶verb
1 the pads are formed from mild steel: make, construct, build, manufacture, fabricate, assemble, put together; create, produce, concoct, devise, contrive, frame, fashion, shape.
2 he formed a plan: formulate, devise, conceive, work out, think up, lay, draw up, put together, produce, fashion, concoct, forge, hatch, incubate, develop; informal dream up.
3 they plan to form a company: set up, establish, found, launch, float, create, bring into being, institute, start (up), get going, initiate, bring about, inaugurate. ANTONYMS dissolve.
4 a mist was forming: materialize, come into being/existence, crystallize, emerge, spring up, develop; take shape, appear, loom, show up, become visible. ANTONYMS disappear.
5 the horse may form bad habits: acquire, develop, get, pick up, contract, slip into, get into. ANTONYMS avoid, break.
6 the warriors formed themselves into a diamond pattern: arrange, draw up, line up, assemble, organize, sort, order, range, array, dispose, marshal, deploy.
7 the parts of society form an integrated whole: constitute, make, make up, compose, add up to.
8 the city formed a natural meeting point: constitute, serve as, act as, function as, perform the function of, do duty for, make.
9 teachers form the minds of children: develop, mold, shape, train, teach, instruct, educate, school, drill, discipline, prime, prepare, guide, direct, inform, enlighten, inculcate, indoctrinate, edify.
PHRASES
good form it is not good form to leave visitors on their own: good manners, manners, polite behavior, correct behavior, convention, etiquette, protocol; informal the done thing.
