forward 
BrE ˈfɔːwəd, AmE ˈfɔrwərd 

A.  adverb 
① (ahead in space) 向前 xiàng qián ‹rush, go›to move [something] forward; 把某物向前移 to be too far forward 太往前了 to reach/lean forward 伸手/倾身向前 we'd prefer seats facing forward 我们想要面朝前的座位 ‘forward march!’ Military “开步走！” → foot 
A. 
① 
② (from beginning to end) [从头至尾]to wind [something] forward 向前卷绕 ‹cassette, tape, video›a palindrome is a word that is spelled the same backward as it is forward 回文指的是顺读倒读拼写都相同的词 
③ (ahead, in progress) 进展 jìnzhǎn to go forward with [something]; 启动某事 a step forward in her career 她的事业向前迈进的一步 there is no other way forward 没有其他前进的道路 
④ (towards the future) 向将来 xiàng jiānglái (onwards in time) 往后 wǎnghòu to travel forward in time 向未来做时间旅行 he doesn't tend to look very far forward 他不会考虑得很长远 from this/that day forward 从今天/那天以后 
B.  adjective 
① (bold) 冒失的 màoshi de ‹child, behaviour›I hope you don't think I'm being too forward 我希望你不要认为我过于冒昧 
② (towards the front) 向前的 xiàng qián de a forward movement 向前的移动 the forward gears 前进挡 forward troops 先头部队 
③ predicative (advanced) 有进展的 yǒu jìnzhǎn de they're not very far forward with the project 这一项目他们未取得太大的进展 
④ attributive formal (located at front) 前部的 qiánbù de the forward cabins 前舱 the plane's forward door 飞机的前舱门 the forward part of the train/procession 火车的前部/队伍的前列 
⑤ attributive Sport (attacking) 打前锋的 dǎ qiánfēng de forward players 前锋球员 the team's forward line 球队的前锋线 
⑥ (ahead of time) 早的 zǎo de ‹season›; 早熟的 zǎoshú de ‹plant›he is very forward in his reading 他在阅读方面很早熟 
⑦ attributive (relating to future) 未来的 wèilái de the forward movement of history 历史的未来发展 
⑧ attributive Finance 预约的 yùyuē de ‹buying, delivery›; 期货的 qīhuò de ‹market, price›; 远期的 yuǎnqī de ‹rate›
C.  noun 前锋 qiánfēng a rugby forward 英式橄榄球前锋 
D.  transitive verb 
① (send on) 转递 zhuǎndì ‹letter›to forward [something] to [somebody]/[something]; 把某物转递给某人/到某处 ‘please forward’ “请转递” 
② Busn formal (dispatch) «person, firm» 发送 fāsòng ‹goods, information›to forward [something] to [somebody], to forward [somebody] [something]; 把某物发送给某人 I forwarded my CV to the company 我把简历发给这家公司了 to forward a request/complaint 提出要求/投诉 
③ formal (further) 促进 cùjìn to forward one's career 发展事业 
forward 
ˈfôrwərd

▶adverb (also forwards)
1 toward the front; in the direction that one is facing or traveling: he started up the engine and the car moved forward 
Lori leaned forward over the table. 
• in, near, or toward the bow or nose of a ship or aircraft. 
• in the normal order or sequence: the number was the same backward as forward.
2 onward so as to make progress; toward a successful conclusion: there's no way forward for the relationship. 
• into a position of prominence or notice: he is pushing forward a political ally.
3 toward the future; ahead in time: from that day forward, the assembly was at odds with us. 
• to an earlier time: the special issue has been moved forward to winter. 
▶adjective
1 directed or facing toward the front or the direction that one is facing or traveling: forward flight 
the pilot's forward view. 
• positioned near the enemy lines: troops moved to the forward areas. 
• (in sports) moving toward the opponents' goal: a forward pass. 
• in, near, or toward the bow or nose of a ship or aircraft. 
• Electronics (of a voltage applied to a semiconductor junction) in the direction that allows significant current to flow.
2 [attributive] relating to or concerned with the future: a twelve-month forward forecast.
3 moving or tending onward to a successful conclusion: the decision is a forward step. 
• developing or acting earlier than expected or required; advanced or precocious: an alarmingly forward yet painfully vulnerable child.
4 (of a person) bold or familiar in manner, especially in a presumptuous way. 
▶noun
1 an attacking player in basketball, hockey, or other sports. 
• American Football an offensive or defensive lineman.
2 (forwards) Finance short for forward contract. 
▶verb [with object]
1 send (a letter or email) on to a further destination: (as adjective forwarding) : a forwarding address. 
• hand over or send (an official document): their final report was forwarded to the Commanding Officer. 
• dispatch (goods): (as adjective forwarding) : a freight forwarding company.
2 help to advance (something); promote: the scientists are forwarding the development of biotechnology. 
PHRASES
take something forward take responsibility for dealing with a task or developing a project: he's designed a potentially successful product and we're doing all we can to help him take it forward.DERIVATIVES forwardly 
ˈfôrwərdlē 
adverbORIGIN Old English forweard (in the sense ‘toward the future,’ as in from this day forward), variant of forthweard (see forth, -ward) .
