foul 
BrE faʊl, AmE faʊl 

A.  adjective 
① (dirty, disgusting) 污秽的 wūhuì de ‹place›; 污浊的 wūzhuó de ‹water, air›; 难闻的 nánwén de ‹smell›; 发臭的 fāchòu de ‹food›I have an absolutely foul taste in my mouth 我嘴里有一股很恶心的味道 my son says school meals are absolutely foul 我儿子说学校的饭菜难吃极了 this medicine tastes foul! 这药很难吃！ 
② colloquial (unpleasant) 令人不快的 lìng rén bùkuài de ‹temper, frame of mind, time›in a foul mood 心情糟透的 
③ Meteorology 恶劣的 èliè de ‹weather, atmosphere›it was a foul day 那天风雨交加 
④ literary (evil) 邪恶的 xié'è de ‹treachery, villain›the criminal tried to conceal his foul crimes/deeds 罪犯企图掩盖他邪恶的罪行/行径 a foul traitor 无耻的叛徒 
⑤ (obscene) 下流的 xiàliú de ‹language, mind›to have a foul mouth or tongue 嘴不干净 
⑥ Sport 犯规的 fànguī de ‹blow›that was a foul hit! 那是犯规的一击！ by fair means or foul 不择手段 
B.  adverb 犯规地 fànguī de ‹fight›if you play foul, I'll never forgive you! 如果你使坏，我决不原谅你！ to fall or run foul of [something]/[somebody] 与某事/某人发生冲突 to fall foul of the law 触犯法律 
C.  noun 犯规 fànguī to commit a foul 犯规 fànguī to be sent off for a foul 因为犯规被罚下场 
D.  transitive verb 
① (pollute) 污染 wūrǎn ‹air, environment, water›; 弄脏 nòngzāng ‹play area, path›dogs must not foul the pavement 禁止狗在人行道上便溺 it's an ill bird that fouls its own nest proverb 恶鸟不渎巢 to foul one's own nest figurative 辱没家门 
② (become tangled with) «rope, fishing net, seaweed» 缠住 chánzhù ‹anchor, engine›to be fouled on [something]; 被缠在某物上 
③ (clog) «dust, waste» 使…壅塞 shǐ… yōngsè ‹device, chimney, pipe›
④ literary (dishonour) «person, incident, action» 玷污 diànwū ‹good name, reputation›
⑤ Sport 对…犯规 duì… fànguī ‹opponent›
⑥ Nautical «vessel» 碰撞 pèngzhuàng ‹vessel, bridge, rocks›PHRASAL VERB foul up 
A.  transitive verb[foul something up, foul up something] 
① colloquial (bungle) «person, action, attitude» 把…搞糟 bǎ… gǎozāo ‹relationship, plan, prospect, system›you've completely fouled things up! 你把事情彻底搞砸了！ 
② (block, entangle) «rubbish, soot» 使…壅塞 shǐ… yōngsè ‹chimney, pipe›; «weed» 缠住 chánzhù ‹engine, propeller›
B.  intransitive verb colloquial «person, organization» 搞砸 gǎozá 
foul 
foul

▶adjective
1 offensive to the senses, especially through having a disgusting smell or taste or being unpleasantly soiled: a foul odor 
his foul breath. 
• informal very disagreeable or unpleasant: the news had put Michelle in a foul mood. 
• (of the weather) wet and stormy. 
• Sailing (of wind or tide) opposed to one's desired course.
2 wicked or immoral: murder most foul. 
• (of language) obscene or profane. 
• done contrary to the rules of a sport: a foul tackle.
3 containing or charged with noxious matter; polluted: foul, swampy water. 
• [predicative] (foul with) clogged or choked with: the land was foul with weeds. 
• Nautical (of a rope or anchor) entangled. 
• (of a ship's bottom) encrusted with algae, barnacles, or other marine growth. 
• Printing (of a first copy or proof) defaced by corrections. 
▶noun
1 (in sports) an unfair or invalid stroke or piece of play, especially one involving interference with an opponent. 
• a collision or entanglement in riding, rowing, or running. 
• short for foul ball.
2 informal, dated a disease in the feet of cattle: he was indeed suffering from foul of the foot. 
▶adverb unfairly; contrary to the rules. 
• (in sports) in foul territory: if a batter hits a bunt foul with two strikes, he is out. 
▶verb [with object]
1 make foul or dirty; pollute: factories that fouled the atmosphere. 
• disgrace or dishonor. 
• (of an animal) make (something) dirty with excrement: make sure that your pet never fouls the sidewalk. 
• (foul oneself) (of a person) defecate involuntarily.
2 (in sports) commit a foul against (an opponent). 
• Baseball hit a foul ball: Carter fouled into the glove of Boggs.
3 (of a ship) collide with or interfere with the passage of (another). 
• cause (a cable, anchor, or other object) to become entangled or jammed: watch out for driftwood which might foul up the engine 
[no object] : we feared the anchor would foul in the heavy grasses. 
PHRASES
fall foul of see fall. foul one's (own) nest do something damaging or harmful to oneself or one's own interests.PHRASAL VERBS foul out Basketball be put out of the game for exceeding the permitted number of fouls. 
• Baseball (of a batter) be made out by hitting a foul ball that is caught by an opposing player:: Wilson has never fouled out against this young pitcher. foul something up (or foul up) make a mistake with or spoil something: leaders should admit when they completely foul things up.DERIVATIVES foully 
ˈfou(l)lē 
adverb. foulness 
ˈfoulnəs 
nounORIGIN Old English fūl, of Germanic origin; related to Old Norse fúll ‘foul,’ Dutch vuil ‘dirty,’ and German faul ‘rotten, lazy,’ from an Indo-European root shared by Latin pus,Greek puos ‘pus,’ and Latin putere ‘to stink.’
