foundation 
BrE faʊnˈdeɪʃ(ə)n, AmE faʊnˈdeɪʃ(ə)n 
noun 
① Uncountable(setting up) 创建 chuàngjiàn 
② Countableliteral (base) 地基 dìjī to rest on firm foundations; 地基牢固 to stand on a foundation of [something]; 建在某物做的地基上 the building stands on a foundation of solid rock 房屋建在坚实的岩石上 to undermine the foundations; 破坏地基 to lay the foundations for a building; 为建筑物打下地基 
③ Countablefigurative (basis) 基础 jīchǔ to lay the foundations for [something]; 为某事打下基础 to rock or shake [something] to its foundations; 从根本上动摇某物 the stock exchange crash rocked the company to its foundations 股市暴跌使该公司元气大伤 
④ Countablefigurative (truth) 根据 gēnjù to be/have a foundation for doing [something]; 是做某事的根据/做某事是有根据的 without foundation 没有根据 
⑤ Countable( also Foundation) (institution) 基金会 jījīnhuì 
⑥ Uncountablefigurative (make-up base) 粉底霜 fěndǐshuāng 
foundation 
▶noun
1 the foundations of a building: footing, foot, base, substructure, infrastructure, underpinning; bottom, bedrock, substratum.
2 the report has a scientific foundation: basis, starting point, base, point of departure, beginning, premise; principles, fundamentals, rudiments; cornerstone, core, heart, thrust, essence, kernel.
3 there was no foundation for the claim: justification, grounds, defense, reason, rationale, cause, basis, motive, excuse, call, pretext, provocation.
4 an educational foundation: endowed institution, charitable body, funding agency, source of funds, endowment; dot-org.REFLECTIONS David Lehmanfoundation garments Some writers love assignments and exercises, and one I like involves taking familiar two-word phrases, misconstruing at least one of the terms in each case, and using the results to trigger a narrative. Foundation garments can be construed correctly to refer to a woman's underclothes—or creatively to indicate a suit worn by officials of the Guggenheim, Ford, MacArthur, or Rockefeller foundations. Lemon peel suggests a variety of striptease done beneath hot yellow lights. Body shop is a place that provides corpses—for a stiff price. The idea of a hospital used for military purposes popped into my head when my friend Bill Wadsworth told me that as a boy he thought General Anesthesia was related to Princess Anastasia and that both came out of Tolstoy. I used to think trial and error was a comment on the judiciary. Now I think it designates a court where the verdict is always wrong, so to be tried there is itself a punishment. In sum: a famous executive at a philanthropic foundation goes to a strip club. Later, the stripper's corpse turns up in a back alley where the stuffed shirt lies unconscious. He is charged with a crime he does not remember having committed. His restored memory is his punishment, which cures him as he lies in the hospital ward where strange ideological debates and disputes keep going on around him. All this is proof, perhaps, that metaphoric invention is a species of deliberate error.Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
