franchise 
BrE ˈfran(t)ʃʌɪz, AmE ˈfrænˌtʃaɪz 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(right to vote) the franchise 选举权 xuǎnjǔquán to extend the franchise; 扩大选举权 kuòdà xuǎnjǔquán 
② CountableBusn 特许经销权 tèxǔ jīngxiāoquán to grant a franchise; 授予特许经销权 to hold a franchise for [something]; 拥有某商品的特许经销权 to withdraw a franchise; 撤销特许经销权 
③ Countable(business, service) 特许经销企业 tèxǔ jīngxiāo qǐyè before noun a franchise operation 特许经销企业 tèxǔ jīngxiāo qǐyè 
B.  transitive verb 给予…特许经销权 jǐyǔ… tèxǔ jīngxiāoquán ‹individual, firm›; 给予经营…的特许经销权 jǐyǔ jīngyíng… de tèxǔ jīngxiāoquán ‹product, service›a franchised dealer 特许经销商 all the catering was franchised 所有的餐饮业都是特许经营的 
franchise 
ˈfranˌCHīz

▶noun
1 an authorization granted by a government or company to an individual or group enabling them to carry out specified commercial activities, e.g., providing a broadcasting service or acting as an agent for a company's products. 
• a business or service given a franchise to operate. 
• a general title or concept used for creating or marketing a series of products, typically films or television shows: the Harry Potter franchise. 
• (chiefly in North America) an ownership structure in professional sports in which a league is limited to a fixed number of teams. 
• North American an authorization given by a league to own a sports team. 
• North American informal a professional sports team. 
• (also franchise player) North American informal a star player on a team.
2 (usually the franchise) the right to vote. 
• the rights of citizenship. 
▶verb [with object] grant a franchise to (an individual or group). 
• grant a franchise for the sale of (goods) or the operation of (a service): all the catering was franchised out. DERIVATIVES franchiser 
ˈfranˌCHīzər 
(also franchisor 
ˌfranCHəˈzôr
) nounORIGIN Middle English (denoting a grant of legal immunity): from Old French, based on franc, franche ‘free’ (see frank1). Sense
2 of the noun dates from the late 18th century and sense
1 of the noun from the 20th century.
