fresh 
BrE frɛʃ, AmE frɛʃ 

A.  adjective 
① (not old or processed) 新鲜的 xīnxiān de ‹food, fruit›fresh milk/fish/meat/flowers 鲜奶/鱼/肉/花 to look/feel/taste/smell fresh 看上去/感觉/尝起来/闻起来新鲜 to stay fresh 保鲜 are the beans fresh or frozen? 豆子是新鲜的还是冷冻的？ fresh from [something] 刚从某处得到的 milk fresh from the cow 刚挤的牛奶 apples fresh from the tree 刚从树上摘下来的苹果 bread fresh from the oven 刚出炉的面包 
② usually attributive (new, additional) 另外的 lìngwài de ‹supplies, drink›; 新的 xīn de ‹evidence, news, hope, attempt›on a fresh sheet of paper 在另一张空白纸上 give the budgie some fresh water 给这只虎皮鹦鹉换些新鲜水 to take fresh heart 重新振奋 to make a fresh start 重新开始 
③ (recent) 新近的 xīnjìn de ‹mark, tracks›; 新涂的 xīntú de ‹paint›fresh footprints in the snow 雪地上新留下的足迹 to be (still) fresh in [somebody's] mind or memory 某人记忆犹新 
④ (recently arrived) 新到的 xīndào de ‹person, thing›fresh from or off or out of [something]; 刚从某处来的 fresh from their trip to America 刚结束他们的美国之行回来的 cars fresh off the production line 刚下生产线的汽车 fresh to [something] 刚到某处的 she is fresh to television 她刚刚接触电视业 
⑤ (different, original) 新颖的 xīnyǐng de ‹approach, attitude, manner›
⑥ predicative (energetic, alert) 精力充沛的 jīnglì chōngpèi de I felt fresh after my holiday 假期结束后我感到精神饱满 as fresh as a daisy 精神焕发的 
⑦ BrE colloquial (cool and windy) 凛冽的 lǐnliè de ‹wind, weather›it's rather fresh out there 外面挺冷的 
⑧ (cool, refreshing) 凉爽的 liángshuǎng de ‹air, day›; 清凉的 qīngliáng de ‹water›
⑨ (clean to the senses) 洁净的 jiéjìng de ‹clothes, cloth›; 清爽的 qīngshuǎng de ‹smell, taste›fresh white sheets 洁净的白床单 fresh-looking/tasting/smelling 相貌/味道/气味清新的 
⑩ (bright) 鲜艳的 xiānyàn de ‹colour›
⑪ (healthy) 光洁的 guāngjié de ‹face, complexion, skin›
⑫ predicative colloquial (overfamiliar) «manner, person» 无礼的 wúlǐ de to be or get fresh with [somebody]; 对某人放肆 the clerk was a bit fresh with me 这个职员对我有些无礼 he started to get fresh and I slapped his face 他开始放肆起来，我就打了他一个耳光 
B.  adverb 
① (recently) 刚 gāng ‹picked, caught, made›fresh-cut flowers 刚剪下的花 fresh-baked bread 刚烤好的面包 fresh-frozen peas 新鲜冷冻的豌豆 fresh-ground coffee 新磨的咖啡 
② colloquial (completely) to be fresh out of [something]; 刚用尽某物 gāng yòngjìn mǒu wù sorry, we're fresh out of melons 很抱歉，瓜刚卖完 
fresh 
freSH

▶adjective
1 (of food) recently made or obtained; not canned, frozen, or otherwise preserved: fresh fruit.
2 not previously known or used; new or different: the court had heard fresh evidence. 
• recently created or experienced and not faded or impaired: the memory was still fresh in their minds. 
• (of a person) attractively youthful and inexperienced: a fresh young girl.
3 [predicative] (of a person) full of energy and vigor: they are feeling fresh after a good night's sleep. 
• (of a color or a person's complexion) bright or healthy in appearance: her dark hair set off her fresh complexion to perfection.
4 (of water) not salty: all the fresh water in the world's lakes.
5 (of the wind) cool and fairly strong: a fresh northerly wind was speeding the ship southwards. 
• pleasantly clean, pure, and cool: the toothpaste leaves the mouth feeling wonderfully fresh.
6 [predicative] (fresh from/out of) (of a person) having just had (a particular experience) or come from (a particular place): we were fresh out of art school.
7 informal presumptuous or impudent toward someone, especially in a sexual way: some of the men tried to get fresh with the girls.
8 (of a cow) yielding a renewed or increased supply of milk following the birth of a calf. 
▶adverb [usually in combination] newly; recently: fresh-baked bread 
fresh-cut grass. 
PHRASES
be fresh out of informal have just sold or run out of a supply of (something). (as) fresh as a daisy see daisy. fresh blood see blood. ORIGIN Old English fersc ‘not salt, fit for drinking,’ superseded in Middle English by forms from Old French freis, fresche; both ultimately of Germanic origin and related to Dutch vers and German frisch .
