friend 
BrE frɛnd, AmE frɛnd 
noun 
① (person one likes) 朋友 péngyou to make friends; 交朋友 to make a friend of [somebody]; 把某人变成朋友 to make/be friends with [somebody]; 和某人交朋友 to be the best of friends 是最好的朋友 let's be friends! (after quarrel) 我们和好吧！ a friend of the family 亲友 with friends like him/her, who needs enemies? 有他/她这样的损友，谁还需要敌人？ a friend in need is a friend indeed proverb 患难朋友才是真朋友 
② figurative (ally) 支持者 zhīchízhě the party has many friends in industry 该党在工业界有许多支持者 to have friends in high places 有贵人相助 to be a friend of or to the poor 是穷人的同情者 
③ (fellow member) 同志 tóngzhì 
④ (patron) 赞助者 zànzhùzhě Friends of the Cathedral 大教堂之友 
⑤ (mode of address) 朋友 péngyou [用作称呼]come here, my friend, don't be shy 到这儿来，我的朋友，别不好意思 
⑥ (with humorous or sarcastic reference) 老朋友 lǎo péngyou [含幽默或讽刺义]not forgetting our old friend the taxman ironic 别忘了我们那位收税员老朋友 
⑦ figurative (familiar object) 老朋友 lǎo péngyou [熟悉的有益事物]this book is an old friend 这本书是位老朋友 
⑧ BrE Politics 朋友 péngyou [在议院中对同一政党成员的称呼]my honourable friend 我尊敬的朋友 
⑨ Law 同行 tóngháng my learned friend 我渊博的同行 
friend 
frend

▶noun
1 a person whom one knows and with whom one has a bond of mutual affection, typically exclusive of sexual or family relations. 
• a person who acts as a supporter of a cause, organization, or country by giving financial or other help: join the Friends of Guilford Free Library. 
• a person who is not an enemy or who is on the same side: she was unsure whether he was friend or foe. 
• a familiar or helpful thing: he settled for that old friend the compensation grant. 
• (often as a polite form of address or in ironic reference) an acquaintance or a stranger one comes across: my friends, let me introduce myself. 
• a contact associated with a social networking website: all of a sudden you've got 50 friends online who need to stay connected.
2 (Friend) a member of the Religious Society of Friends; a Quaker. 
▶verb [with object]
1 add (someone) to a list of contacts associated with a social networking website: I am friended by 29 people who I have not friended back.
2 archaic befriend (someone). 
PHRASES
be (or make) friends with be (or become) on good or affectionate terms with (someone). a friend at court a person in a position to use their influence on one's behalf. a friend in need is a friend indeed proverb a person who helps at a difficult time is a truly reliable person. friends in high places people in senior positions who are able and willing to use their influence on one's behalf. with friends like ——, who needs enemies? used to suggest that a supposed friend or ally of a particular person has acted against the best interests of that person: with friends like this guy, who needs enemies?ORIGIN Old English frēond, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch vriend and German Freund, from an Indo-European root meaning ‘to love,’ shared by free .
