fringe 
BrE frɪn(d)ʒ, AmE frɪndʒ 

A.  noun 
① BrE (of hair) 刘海 liúhǎi 
② (decorative trim) 流苏 liúsū 
③ (edge) 边缘 biānyuán on the fringe of [something]; 在某物的外围 on the fringe(s) of society 在社会的边缘 
B.  adjectivebefore noun 
① Theatre 非主流的 fēizhǔliú de ‹actor›she works in fringe theatre 她在实验戏剧界工作 
② Politics, Sociology 非正统的 fēizhèngtǒng de ‹element, views›
C.  transitive verb 
① (decorate, embellish) 装饰…的边缘 zhuāngshì… de biānyuán the cloth was fringed with lace 那块布镶有蕾丝花边 
② (form border) «trees, houses» 构成…的边缘 gòuchéng… de biānyuán ‹pool, square, road›palms fringed the oasis 棕榈树环绕着绿洲 
fringe 
frinj

▶noun
1 an ornamental border of threads left loose or formed into tassels or twists, used to edge clothing or material.
2 chiefly British the front part of a person's hair cut so as to hang over the forehead; bangs.. 
• a natural border of hair or fibers in an animal or plant.
3 (often the fringes) the outer, marginal, or extreme part of an area, group, or sphere of activity: his uncles were on the fringes of crooked activity. 
• (the fringe) the unconventional, extreme, or marginal wing of a group or sphere of activity: the lunatic fringe of American political life 
rap music is no longer something on the fringe.
4 a band of contrasting brightness or darkness produced by diffraction or interference of light. 
• a strip of false color in an optical image.
5 North American short for fringe benefit. 
▶adjective [attributive] not part of the mainstream; unconventional, peripheral, or extreme: fringe theater. 
▶verb (fringes, fringing, fringed) [with object] decorate (clothing or material) with a fringe: a rich robe of gold, fringed with black velvet. 
• form a border around (something): the sea is fringed by palm trees. 
• (as adjective fringed) (of a plant or animal) having a natural border of hair or fiber. DERIVATIVES fringeless adjective. fringy 
ˈfrinjē 
adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: from Old French frenge, based on late Latin fimbria, earlier a plural noun meaning ‘fibers, shreds.’
