front 
BrE frʌnt, AmE frənt 

A.  noun 
① Countable(forward-facing part) 前面 qiánmian ; (main flat side) 正面 zhèngmiàn in front of [something]; 在某物前面 there is a dent in the front of the car 车子前面有一个凹痕 the skirt fastens at the front 这条裙子在前面系扣 the book had a picture of an elephant on the front 书的封面有一张大象的图片 from the front, it looks like … 从正面看，它似乎… the eyes are at the front of the head (of animal) 眼睛在头的正面 I'd like it a bit shorter at the front, please (at hairdresser's) 我想要前面短一些 
② Countable(of person's body) 胸部 xiōngbù he spilt soup down his front 他把汤洒在了前胸上 I was lying on my front 我正趴着 
③ Countable(furthest forward interior part) 前部 qiánbù the teacher stood at the front of the room 老师站在房间前部 the pages at the front of the book 书的前几页 at the front of the plane 在飞机的前部 face the front! 向前看！ out front 观众席 
④ Countable(furthest forward part of procession, crowd) 前端 qiánduān I was at the front of the queue or line 我在队列的最前面 
⑤ Uncountable(position ahead of sb./sth.) 领先地位 lǐngxiān dìwèi to be in front (of [something]/[somebody]); 领先（某物/某人） if you want to stay in front of your competitors, you must … 如果想保持领先你的对手，你必须… 
⑥ Countable(initial position) 开始位置 kāishǐ wèizhi at the front 在开始位置 
⑦ Uncountable(presence) 面前 miànqián in front of [somebody]; 在某人面前 not in front of the children! 不要当着孩子的面！ 
⑧ Countableespecially BrE (promenade) 海滨人行道 hǎibīn rénxíngdào we went for a stroll along/on the front 我们沿着海滨路/在海滨路上漫步 on the river front 在滨河人行道上 
⑨ CountableMeteorology 锋 fēng a cold/warm/occluded front 冷锋/暖锋/锢囚锋 
⑩ CountableMilitary 前线 qiánxiàn to open up a front 开辟一条战线 
⑪ Countable(area of activity) 方面 fāngmiàn on the … front; 在…范围内 on the political/fashion front 在政治/时尚领域 
⑫ Countable(in names) 阵线 zhènxiàn the worker's/people's front 工人/人民阵线 
⑬ Countable(outer appearance) 外表 wàibiǎo to put on/show/present a bold/brave front 装出/显示出/呈现出大胆/勇敢的外表 to present a united front 表现出团结一致 
⑭ Countable(cover) 掩护 yǎnhù a front for [something]; 某物的掩护 the jewellery business was a front for a diamond-smuggling operation 珠宝生意被用作走私钻石的幌子 
⑮ Uncountable(boldness) 放肆 fàngsì he's got a bit of talent and a lot of front 他小有才华，但狂妄自大 he had the front to tell me I was wrong! 他竟厚颜无耻地对我说我错了！ 
B.  adjectiveattributive 
① (facing street) 前面的 qiánmian de ‹window, wall, gate, garden›(in the front) 前部的 qiánbù de ‹wheel, wing›(furthest from rear) 前端的 qiánduān de ‹carriage, seat, row›the piano is in the front room 钢琴在前厅 the front leg/foot/paw 前腿/足/爪 we sat in the front row 我们坐在前排 the front section of the book 书的第一部分 front teeth 门牙 
② Sport 领先的 lǐngxiān de ‹athlete, car, horse›
③ (head-on) 正面的 zhèngmiàn de ‹view, elevation›
C.  intransitive verb 
① (face) «house, window, garden» 朝向 cháoxiàng to front on to [something] BrE to front on [something] AmE 面向某物 his office fronts on to the car park 他的办公室面对着停车场 
② (act as cover) 作掩护 zuò yǎnhù to front for [somebody]/[something]; 掩护某人/某物 
D.  transitive verb 
① (face) «house, garden» 面向 miànxiàng ‹beach, river, street›
② (be in front of) «car park, wall, hedge» 位于…前面 wèiyú… qiánmian ‹building›the house is fronted by an attractive garden 房子前面是一个漂亮的花园 
③ (provide with front) 为…装正面 wèi… zhuāng zhèngmiàn ‹building, monument, cupboard›to be fronted with or by [something]; 正面覆盖某物 
④ colloquial (lead) 领导 lǐngdǎo ‹organization, group›
⑤ Television, Radio colloquial 主持 zhǔchí ‹show, programme›
front 
frənt

▶noun
1 the side or part of an object that presents itself to view or that is normally seen or used first; the most forward part of something: a page at the front of the book had been torn out 
he sealed the envelope and wrote on the front. 
• [in singular] the position directly ahead of someone or something; the most forward position or place: she quickly turned her head to face the front. 
• the forward-facing part of a person's body, on the opposite side to their back. 
• the part of a garment covering this: oatmeal slopped from the tray onto his shirt front. 
• informal a woman's bust or cleavage. 
• any face of a building, especially that of the main entrance: the west front of the cathedral. 
• chiefly British short for seafront or waterfront.
2 the foremost line or part of an armed force; the furthest position that an army has reached and where the enemy is or may be engaged: his regiment was immediately sent to the front. 
• the direction toward which a line of troops faces when formed. 
• a particular formation of troops for battle. 
• a particular situation or sphere of operation: there was some good news on the jobs front. 
• [often in names] an organized political group: the Palestinian Liberation Front. 
• Meteorology the forward edge of an advancing mass of air. See cold front, occluded front, warm front.
3 [in singular] an appearance or form of behavior assumed by a person to conceal their genuine feelings: she put on a brave front. 
• a person or organization serving as a cover for subversive or illegal activities: the CIA identified the company as a front for a terrorist group. 
• a well-known or prestigious person who acts as a representative, rather than an active member, of an organization. See also frontman.
4 boldness and confidence of manner: he's got a bit of talent and a lot of front.
5 archaic a person's face or forehead. 
▶adjective [attributive]
1 of or at the front: the front cover of the magazine 
she was in the front yard.
2 Phonetics (of a vowel sound) formed by raising the body of the tongue, excluding the blade and tip, toward the hard palate. 
▶verb [with object]
1 (of a building or piece of land) have the front facing or directed toward: the houses that front Beacon Street 
[no object] : we sold the uphill land that fronted on the road. 
• be or stand in front of: they reached the hedge fronting the garden. 
• archaic stand face to face with; confront: Tom fronted him with unwavering eyes.
2 (usually be fronted) provide (something) with a front or facing of a particular type or material: a metal box fronted by an alloy panel 
[as adjective, in combination] (-fronted) : a glass-fronted bookcase.
3 lead or be the most prominent member in (an organization, activity, or group of musicians): the group is fronted by two girl singers. 
• present or host (a television or radio program). 
• [no object] act as a front or cover for someone or something acting illegally or wishing to conceal something: he fronted for them in illegal property deals.
4 Phonetics articulate (a vowel sound) with the tongue further forward: (as adjective fronted) : all speakers use raised and fronted variants more in spontaneous speech.
5 Linguistics place (a sentence element) at the beginning of a sentence instead of in its usual position, typically for emphasis or as feature of some dialects, as in horrible it was. 
▶exclam. used to summon someone to the front or to command them to assume a forward-facing position, as in calling a bellhop to the front desk or giving orders to troops on parade: scouts, front and center! 
PHRASES
in front
1 in a position just ahead of or further forward than someone or something else: the car in front stopped suddenly. 
• in the lead in a game or contest: the Reds were in front until the eighth inning.
2 on the part or side that normally first presents itself to view: a house with a wide porch in front. in front of
1 in a position just ahead or at the front part of someone or something else: the lawn in front of the house. 
• in a position facing someone or something: she sat in front of the mirror.
2 in the presence of: the teacher didn't want his authority challenged in front of the class. out front at or to the front; in front: two station wagons stopped out front. 
• in the auditorium of a theater. up front
1 at or near the front: the floor plan has an open living area up front.
2 in advance: every fee must be paid up front.
3 open and direct; frank: I vowed to be up front with her.DERIVATIVES fronting 
ˈfrəntiNG 
noun. frontless adjective. frontward 
-wərd 
adjective & adverb. frontwards 
-wərdz 
adverbORIGIN Middle English (denoting the forehead): from Old French front (noun), fronter (verb), from Latin frons, front- ‘forehead, front.’
