full 
BrE fʊl, AmE fʊl 
A. adjective 
① (completely filled, containing a significant amount) 装满的 zhuāngmǎn de ‹box, glass, cupboard›; 挤满人的 jǐmǎn rén de ‹room, lift, bus›; 满座的 mǎnzuò de ‹theatre, cinema›; 满房的 mǎnfáng de ‹hotel›; 塞满的 sāimǎn de ‹mouth, hand›Computing 刻录满的 kèlù mǎn de ‹disk›; 录满的 lùmǎn de ‹tape›a full tank of petrol 满满一箱汽油 the bin is almost full 垃圾箱几乎满了 'car park full' 车位已满 full to the brim 满到边的 full to overflowing literal 满得溢出的 the train was full to overflowing figurative 火车上挤得水泄不通 full of [something]; 装满某物的 a bucket full of water 装满水的桶 his arms were full of parcels 他怀里抱满了包裹 to have one's hands full 忙得不可开交 don't speak or talk with your mouth full 嘴里塞满食物时不要讲话 on a full stomach 吃饱的 chībǎo de my heart is full or too full for words 我激动得说不出话来 with a full heart 怀着激动的心情 to be full of [something]; (be filled with) 充满某物 (focus on) 满脑子都是某物 to be full of hope/fear 充满希望/恐惧 she's always full of good ideas 她总是有很多好点子 the papers are full of the plane crash 报纸大肆报导这次坠机事件 a letter full of spelling mistakes 拼写错误连篇的信 to be full of one's own importance 自以为了不起 
② predicative (sated) «person» 吃饱的 chībǎo de no thanks, I'm full (up) 不，谢谢，我饱了 I feel rather full 我感到有些撑 to be full of [something]; 吃了很多某物 
③ (busy) 忙碌的 mánglù de ‹life, time›; 排满的 páimǎn de ‹diary›his evenings are completely full 他每晚都很忙 
④ attributive (complete) 完整的 wánzhěng de ‹score, set, account, term›; 全额的 quán'é de ‹sum, pension›; 详尽的 xiángjìn de ‹details, information›my grandfather still has a full set of teeth 我祖父还有一口完整的牙齿 in full uniform 穿全套制服的 students have to pay full fare 学生必须付全价车费 his full name 他的全名 a fuller understanding of the problem 对这个问题更全面的理解 to do a full week's work 做整整一周的工作 is he your full brother? 他是你的同胞兄弟吗？ a book bound in full cloth/leather 用全布面/全皮面装订的书 
⑤ attributive (officially recognized) 正式的 zhèngshì de ‹member, permit, citizenship›a full professor AmE University 正教授 a full general/colonel 将军/上校 
⑥ attributive (maximum) 最大的 zuì dà de ‹volume, advantage›; 最高的 zuì gāo de ‹score›(at) full speed or tilt or pelt （以）全速 full speed or steam ahead 全速前进 they have been working full steam ahead all day 他们一整天都在奋力工作 to make full use of the facilities 充分利用这些设施 to be at full stretch 全力以赴 
⑦ attributive (emphasizing measurement) 整整 zhěngzhěng [表示强调]we waited a full hour 我们等了整整一小时 
⑧ attributive (emphasizing magnitude) 全部的 quánbù de ‹responsibility›; 绝对的 juéduì de ‹control, horror›the full extent of the damage 损坏的严重程度 you have our full support in this campaign 在这次活动中我们全力支持你 the event received full TV coverage 这个事件受到全面的电视报导 in full possession of one's faculties 神智十分清醒的 in full view (of [somebody]/[something]) 被（某人/某物）尽收眼底 
⑨ usually attributive (rounded) 丰满的 fēngmǎn de ‹figure, hips, breasts, lips›; 胖乎乎的 pànghūhū de ‹face, thighs›
⑩ Clothing 宽松的 kuānsōng de ‹skirt, sleeve, trousers, robe›
⑪ Astronomy 满的 mǎn de a full moon 满月 
⑫ (intense, rich) 深的 shēn de ‹colour›; 浑厚的 húnhòu de ‹sound, voice›; 浓郁的 nóngyù de ‹flavour, body›
⑬ (bright) 强烈的 qiángliè de ‹sunshine, light›; (direct) 直接的 zhíjiē de ‹sunshine, light›to sit in the full sunlight 坐在强烈的阳光下 
B.  adverb 
① (directly) 直接地 zhíjiē de to hit [somebody] full in the face/chest 正中脸部/胸部 full in the centre 在正中央 to look [somebody] full in the face 直盯着某人的脸 
② dated (very) 非常 fēicháng I know full well what will happen 我很清楚将要发生什么事 
③ (to the maximum) 最大程度地 zuì dà chéngdù de is the volume turned up full? 音量开到最大了吗？ full on 大开着 the room heats up very quickly with the fire full on 取暖器开到最大时，房间很快就暖和起来 the car's headlights were full on 汽车的车头灯大开着 she met the problem full on 她全力对付这一问题 
C.  nounUncountable
① (complete form) 全部 quánbù in full 完全地 paid in full 付讫 he has been repaid in full for his cruelty 他的残忍遭到了彻底的报应 
② (maximum) 最大程度 zuì dà chéngdù to the full 充分地 to enjoy or live life to the full 尽情享受生活 
full 
▶adjective
1 her glass was full: filled, filled up, filled to capacity, filled to the brim, brimming, brimful. ANTONYMS empty.
2 streets full of people: crowded with, packed with, crammed with, congested with; teeming with, swarming with, thick with, thronged with, overcrowded with, overrun with; abounding with, bursting with, overflowing with; informal jam-packed with, wall-to-wall with, stuffed with, chockablock with, chock-full of, bursting at the seams with, packed to the gunwales with, awash with. ANTONYMS empty.
3 all the seats were full: occupied, taken, in use, unavailable. ANTONYMS empty, unoccupied.
4 I'm full: replete, full up, satisfied, well fed, sated, satiated, surfeited; gorged, glutted; informal stuffed. ANTONYMS hungry.
5 she'd had a full life: eventful, interesting, exciting, lively, action-packed, busy, energetic, active. ANTONYMS uneventful.
6 a full list of available facilities: comprehensive, thorough, exhaustive, all-inclusive, all-encompassing, all-embracing, in depth; complete, entire, whole, unabridged, uncut. ANTONYMS selective, incomplete.
7 a fire engine driven at full speed: maximum, top, greatest, highest. ANTONYMS low.
8 she had a full figure: plump, well rounded, rounded, buxom, shapely, ample, curvaceous, voluptuous, womanly, Junoesque; informal busty, curvy, well upholstered, well endowed, zaftig. ANTONYMS thin.
9 a full skirt: loose-fitting, loose, baggy, voluminous, roomy, capacious, billowing. ANTONYMS tight, tight-fitting.
10 his full baritone voice: resonant, rich, sonorous, deep, vibrant, full-bodied, strong, fruity, clear. ANTONYMS thin.
11 the full flavor of a Bordeaux: rich, intense, full-bodied, strong, deep. ANTONYMS watery, thin.
▶adverb
1 she looked full into his face: directly, right, straight, squarely, square, dead, point-blank; informal bang, plumb.
2 you knew full well I was leaving: very, perfectly, quite; informal darn, damn, damned, darned; chiefly British bloody.
PHRASES
in full my letter was published in full: in its entirety, in toto, in total, unabridged, uncut. to the full live your life to the full: fully, thoroughly, completely, to the utmost, to the limit, to the maximum, for all one's worth.
