fun 
BrE fʌn, AmE fən 

A.  nounUncountable
① (amusement, enjoyment) 乐趣 lèqù to have fun doing [something]; 做某事很开心 it is fun to do [something], doing [something] is fun; 做某事很有趣 for fun, for the fun of it, in fun 为了好玩 to spoil [somebody's] fun 扫某人的兴 to have a sense of fun 有幽默感 have fun! 尽情玩吧！ fun and games 嬉戏 what fun! 多么有趣！ 
② (source of pleasure) 有趣的事物 yǒuqù de shìwù card games are great fun 打牌非常有趣 
③ (playfulness) 风趣 fēngqù to be full of fun; 很风趣 
④ (good company) 有趣的人 yǒuqù de rén she is great fun to be with 同她在一起很开心 
⑤ (mockery) 嘲笑 cháoxiào to make fun of [somebody]/[something], to poke fun at [somebody]/[something] 嘲笑某人/某事 to become a figure of fun 成为取笑对象 
B.  adjectiveattributive 有趣的 yǒuqù de ‹person, activity›it's a fun thing to do 这事做起来很有趣 
fun 
fən

▶noun enjoyment, amusement, or lighthearted pleasure: the children were having fun in the play area 
anyone who turns up can join in the fun. 
• a source of this: people watching is great fun. 
• playful behavior or good humor: she's full of fun. 
• behavior or an activity that is intended purely for amusement and should not be interpreted as having serious or malicious purposes: it was nothing serious; they just enjoyed having some harmless fun. 
• [attributive] (of a place or event) providing entertainment or leisure activities for children: a 33-acre movie-themed fun park. 
▶adjective informal amusing, entertaining, or enjoyable: it was a fun evening. 
▶verb (funs, funning, funned) North American informal joke or tease: [no object] : no need to get sore—I was only funning 
[with object] : they are just funning you. 
PHRASES
for fun (or for the fun of it) in order to amuse oneself and not for any more serious purpose. fun and games amusing and enjoyable activities: teaching isn't all fun and games. someone's idea of fun used to emphasize one's dislike for an activity or to mock someone else's liking for it: being stuck behind a desk all day isn't my idea of fun. in fun not intended seriously; as a joke: remember when you meet the press to say that your speech was all in fun. like fun dated an ironic exclamation of contradiction or disbelief in response to a statement. make fun of (or poke fun at) tease, laugh at, or joke about (someone) in a mocking or unkind way. not much (or a lot of) fun used to indicate that something strikes one as extremely unpleasant and depressing: it can't be much fun living next door to him. what fun! used to convey that an activity or situation sounds amusing or enjoyable.ORIGIN late 17th century (denoting a trick or hoax): from obsolete fun ‘to cheat or hoax,’ dialect variant of late Middle English fon ‘make a fool of, be a fool,’ related to fon ‘a fool,’ of unknown origin. Compare with fond . usage: The use of fun as an adjective meaning ‘enjoyable,’ as in we had a fun evening, is now established in informal use, although not accepted in standard English. The comparative and superlative forms funner and funnest, formed as if fun were a standard adjective, should only be used in very informal contexts, typically speech.
