function 
BrE ˈfʌŋ(k)ʃ(ə)n, AmE ˈfəŋ(k)ʃ(ə)n 

A.  noun 
① Countable(role) (of body, organ, tool) 功能 gōngnéng ; (of person) 职责 zhízé to fulfil or perform a function; 履行职责 bodily functions 身体官能 in her function as … 在她作为…的职责中 
② Uncountable(use, purpose) 用途 yòngtú designs that prioritize style over function 优先考虑式样而非实用性的设计 
③ Countable(social event) 盛大的聚会 shèngdà de jùhuì to attend a function; 出席大型社会活动 a charity/an official/a social function 慈善/公务/社交活动 
④ Countablefigurative (aspect, part) 应变量 yìngbiànliàng intelligence is partly a function of the speed of your brain 智力水平有部分是取决于大脑活动的速度 
⑤ CountableComputing 功能 gōngnéng 
⑥ CountableMathematics 函数 hánshù an exponential function 指数函数 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (work properly) «machine, system, organization» 运转 yùnzhuǎn the phone isn't functioning 电话坏了 her brain/liver is functioning normally 她的大脑/肝脏功能正常 
② (perform as) 起作用 qǐ zuòyòng to function as [somebody]/[something]; 起某人/某物的作用 to function as [somebody's] administrative assistant 担任某人的行政助理 
function 
ˈfəNG(k)SH(ə)n

▶noun
1 an activity or purpose natural to or intended for a person or thing: bridges perform the function of providing access across water 
Vitamin A is required for good eye function. 
• practical use or purpose in design: building designs that prioritize style over function. 
• a basic task of a computer, especially one that corresponds to a single instruction from the user.
2 Mathematics a relationship or expression involving one or more variables: the function (bx + c). 
• a variable quantity regarded in relation to one or more other variables in terms of which it may be expressed or on which its value depends. 
• Chemistry a functional group.
3 a thing dependent on another factor or factors: class shame is a function of social power.
4 a large or formal social event or ceremony: he was obliged to attend party functions. 
▶verb [no object] work or operate in a proper or particular way: her liver is functioning normally. 
• (function as) fulfill the purpose or task of (a specified thing): the museum intends to function as an educational and study center. DERIVATIVES functionless adjectiveORIGIN mid 16th century: from French fonction, from Latin functio(n-), from fungi ‘perform.’
