funny 
BrE ˈfʌni, AmE ˈfəni 
adjective 
① (amusing) 滑稽的 huájī de ‹person, joke, story›very funny! ironic 真好笑！ don't try anything funny 别玩鬼花样 don't try to be funny! 别开玩笑！ don't get funny with me! 不要对我无礼！ it's not funny 这可不是儿戏 
② (odd) 古怪的 gǔguài de ‹person, idea, noise›it's funny that …; 真奇怪，… there's something funny about …; …有点蹊跷 funny peculiar or funny ha-ha? 是稀奇古怪还是滑稽可笑？ 
③ colloquial (unwell) 稍有不适的 shāo yǒu bùshì de to feel funny 感到有点不舒服 to come over all funny; 感到头晕目眩 
funny 
ˈfənē

▶adjective (funnier, funniest)
1 causing laughter or amusement; humorous: a funny story 
the play is hilariously funny. 
• [predicative] expressing a speaker's objection to another's laughter or mockery: She started to laugh. “What's so funny?” he asked. 
• [predicative with negative] informal used to emphasize that something is unpleasant or wrong and should be regarded seriously or avoided: stealing other people's work isn't funny.
2 difficult to explain or understand; strange: I had a funny feeling you'd be around 
a funny thing, democracy. 
• unusual or odd; curious: Bev has a funny little stammer. 
• unusual in such a way as to arouse suspicion: there was something funny going on. 
• used to draw attention to or express surprise at a curious or interesting fact or occurrence: that's funny!—that vase of flowers has been moved 
it's funny how there are fashions in crime 
the funny thing is I can't remember much about it. 
• informal (of a person or part of the body) not in wholly good health or order; slightly ill: suddenly my stomach felt funny. 
▶noun
1 (funnies) chiefly North American the comic strips in newspapers: I read the sports page, funnies, and editorial.
2 informal a joke or witty remark: I was trying to make a funny, but failed miserably at it. 
PHRASES
see the funny side (of something) appreciate the humorous aspect of a situation or experience.(oh) very funny! informal used ironically to indicate that a speaker does not share another's joke or amusement.DERIVATIVES funniness 
ˈfənēnəs 
noun
