further 
BrE ˈfəːðə, AmE ˈfərðər 

A.  adverb(comparative form of far) 
① (to or at a greater distance in space or time) 更远 gèng yuǎn further back/forward; 再往后/前 further away or off; 更远 gèng yuǎn to get further and further away 越来越远 further north/south 再往北/南 I can't go any further 我再也走不动了 how much further is it? 还有多远？ the train doesn't go further than Bath 火车最远只到巴斯 a little further on 再往前一点 they ventured further into the jungle 他们冒险深入丛林 we must look further ahead 我们必须目光放得再长远一点 further back than 1964 早在1964年以前 a year further on 又过了一年后 
② (at or to a more advanced point) 进一步 jìnyībù to go further (proceed) 走得更远 (say more, develop argument) 进一步说 (last longer) 持续更久 (serve more people) 供更多人食用 I haven't read further than page twenty 我只读到20页 to get further with the project 在这个项目上取得进展 as a family we grew further and further apart 我们一家人越来越疏远了 to sink further into debt 更深地陷入债务 your secret will go no further or won't go any further 你的秘密不会外泄 I'll go so far but no further 我就讲这么多，不多说了 to take [something] further (take more serious action) 对某事采取进一步行动 (speak to sb. at a higher level) 向上级反映某事 to take the matter further 进一步探讨这个问题 nothing could be further from the truth 事实远非如此 nothing could be further from my mind 我绝无此意 
③ (to a greater extent, even more) 在更大程度上 zài gèng dà chéngdù shang she was further annoyed by his refusal to pay 他拒不付款使得她更加恼怒了 
④ formal (in addition, furthermore) 此外 cǐwài the company further agrees to … 公司还同意… further, I must say that … 此外，我必须说… 
B.  adjectiveattributive (comparative form of far) 
① (more distant, other) 更远的 gèng yuǎn de the further end of the street 街的那一头 the further side of the road/river 路的那一边/河对岸 
② (additional) 进一步的 jìnyībù de ‹reforms›; 更多的 gèng duō de ‹changes, increases, questions›a further 500 people 另外的500人 it will take a further month 还要花一个月时间 to take no further action 不采取进一步行动 the museum is closed until further notice 博物馆闭馆，开馆时间另行通知 
C.  transitive verb 推动 tuīdòng ‹plan›; 促进 cùjìn ‹cooperation›; 进一步发展 jìnyībù fāzhǎn ‹career›; 增加 zēngjiā ‹chances›
D.  further to preposition phrase formal 关于 guānyú further to your letter of 2nd May 按你方5月2日来函 
further 
ˈfərT͟Hər
used as comparative of far. 
▶adverb
1 (also farther 
ˈfärT͟Hər
) at, to, or by a greater distance (used to indicate the extent to which one thing or person is or becomes distant from another): for some time I had wanted to move farther from Lynne 
figurative : the committee seems to have moved further away from its original aims. 
• [with negative] used to emphasize the difference between a supposed or suggested fact or state of mind and the truth: as for her being a liar, nothing could be further from the truth 
nothing could be further from his mind than marrying.
2 (also farther 
ˈfär-
) over a greater expanse of space or time; for a longer way: we had walked further than I realized 
figurative : wages have been driven down even further. 
• beyond the point already reached or the distance already covered: Emily decided to drive further up the coast 
before going any further we need to define our terms.
3 beyond or in addition to what has already been done: we are investigating ways to further increase customer satisfaction 
this theme will be developed further in Chapter
6 
I shall not trouble you any further. 
• [sentence adverb] used to introduce a new point relating to or reinforcing a previous statement: poison hemlock resembles wild carrot, but has a strong, pungent odor; further, young leaves of wild carrot are more finely divided. 
• at or to a more advanced, successful, or desirable stage: at the end of three years they were no further on. 
▶adjective
1 (also farther 
ˈfär-
) more distant in space than something else of the same kind: two men were standing at the further end of the clearing. 
• more remote from a central point: the museum is in the further reaches of the town.
2 additional to what already exists or has already taken place, been done, or been accounted for: cook for a further ten minutes. 
▶verb [with object] help the progress or development of (something); promote: he had depended on using them to further his own career. 
PHRASES
not go any further (of a secret) not be told to anyone else. until further notice used to indicate that a situation will not change until another announcement is made: the museum is closed to the public until further notice. until further orders used to indicate that a situation is only to change when another command is received: they were to be kept in prison until further orders.DERIVATIVES furtherer nounORIGIN Old English furthor (adverb), furthra (adjective), fyrthrian (verb), of Germanic origin; related to forth . usage: On the differences between further and farther, see farther .
