fuse 
BrE fjuːz, AmE fjuz 

A.  noun 
① Electricity 保险丝 bǎoxiǎnsī to blow a fuse; literal 熔断保险丝 figurative colloquial 勃然大怒 bórán dà nù 
② (for explosive device) 导火线 dǎohuǒxiàn to light a fuse; 点燃导火索 to arm or set a fuse; 安导火索 to be on a short fuse figurative 动辄发怒 
③ (detonator) 引信 yǐnxìn 
B.  transitive verb 
① (join) «person, machine, heat» 使…熔接 shǐ… róngjiē ‹metal, wires, ends›to fuse [something] with/to [something]; 把某物同某物熔接在一起 
② (unite, blend) 使…混合 shǐ… hùnhé 
③ Electricity (provide with fuse) 给…接上保险丝 gěi… jiēshang bǎoxiǎnsī 
④ BrE Electricity (cause to stop functioning) 把…的保险丝熔断 bǎ… de bǎoxiǎnsī róngduàn 
C.  intransitive verb 
① Chemistry, Technology «metals, chemicals» 熔接 róngjiē 
② (merge) «companies, parties» 合并 hébìng 
③ (blend) «images, flavours» 结合 jiéhé to fuse together; 结合在一起 
④ BrE Electricity (stop working) «lights, television, plug» 保险丝熔断 bǎoxiǎnsī róngduàn 
⑤ Physics 核聚变 héjùbiàn 
fuse
1 
fyo͞oz

▶verb
1 [with object] join or blend to form a single entity: intermarriage had fused the families into a large unit. 
• [no object] (of groups of atoms or cellular structures) join or coalesce: the two nuclei move together and fuse into one nucleus. 
• melt (a material or object) with intense heat, especially so as to join it with something else: powdered glass was fused to a metal base.
2 [with object] provide (a circuit or electrical appliance) with a fuse: (as adjective fused) : a fused plug.
3 [no object] British (of an electrical appliance) stop working when a fuse melts: the crew were left in darkness after the lights fused. 
• [with object] cause (an electrical appliance) to stop working when a fuse melts. 
▶noun a safety device consisting of a strip of wire that melts and breaks an electric circuit if the current exceeds a safe level. 
PHRASES
blow a fuse use too much power in an electrical circuit, causing a fuse to melt. 
• informal lose one's temper: it was only a suggestion—there's no need to blow a fuse.ORIGIN late 16th century: from Latin fus- ‘poured, melted,’ from the verb fundere .
