fuss 
BrE fʌs, AmE fəs 
A. noun 
① Uncountable(agitation) 大惊小怪 dà jīng xiǎo guài I don't know what all the fuss was about 我不明白有什么好激动的 stop all this fuss! 别这么激动！ 
② Countable(excessive display) 小题大做 xiǎo tí dà zuò what a fuss! 真是小题大做！ a big or great or terrible fuss 小题大做 xiǎo tí dà zuò to make a fuss about or over [something]; 对某事小题大做 to make a (big) fuss about nothing 小题大做 xiǎo tí dà zuò 
③ Countable(angry scene) 争吵 zhēngchǎo there was a big fuss when she found out 她发现后大吵大闹 a fuss about or over [something]; 围绕某事的争吵 to make a fuss 大发牢骚 to kick up a fuss colloquial 大吵大闹 he didn't put up too much of a fuss colloquial 他没有怎么争辩 
④ Uncountable and countable(attention) 过分宠爱 guòfèn chǒng'ài to make a fuss of or over [somebody]; 宠爱某人 the dogs love to be made a fuss of 狗喜欢人的宠爱 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (worry) 烦恼 fánnǎo to fuss about or over [something]/[somebody]; 为某事/某人烦恼 you shouldn't fuss so much about or over your appearance 不要过分在意自己的外表 
② (show attention) 过分关心 guòfèn guānxīn please stop fussing! 请不要再过分关心！ to fuss over [somebody]; 过于关爱某人 
③ (fiddle) 摆弄 bǎinòng to fuss with [something]; 摆弄某物 don't fuss with the computer 不要乱动电脑 
C.  transitive verb colloquial 烦扰 fánrǎo I'm not fussed where we sit 我们坐在哪儿我都无所谓 PHRASAL VERB fuss about, fuss around intransitive verb 瞎忙一气 xiāmáng yīqì she was fussing about or around in the kitchen 她在厨房里忙得团团转 
fuss 
▶noun
1 what's all the fuss about? ado, excitement, agitation, pother, stir, commotion, confusion, disturbance, brouhaha, uproar, furor, palaver, foofaraw, tempest in a teapot, much ado about nothing; bother, fluster, flurry, bustle; informal hoo-ha, to-do, ballyhoo, song and dance, performance, pantomime.
2 they settled in with very little fuss: bother, trouble, inconvenience, effort, exertion, labor; informal hassle.
3 he didn't put up a fuss: protest, complaint, objection, grumble, grouse; informal gripe.
▶verb he was still fussing over his clothes: worry about, fret about, be anxious about, be agitated about, make a big thing out of; informal flap about, be in a tizzy over/about, be in a stew over/about.
