future 
BrE ˈfjuːtʃə, AmE ˈfjutʃər 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(time) 将来 jiānglái in the future 在将来 in future 今后 in the near/distant/not too distant future 在不久的/遥远的/不太遥远的将来 for the future 为将来 the office/home/town of the future 未来的办公室/住宅/城镇 to look to the future 考虑未来 what the future holds 将来要发生的事 to look into the future 展望未来 
② Uncountable(events) 未来的事 wèilái de shì to face the future 面对未来 to see the future 预见未来的事 to plan (out) the future 筹划未来 
③ Uncountable and countable(prospect) 前途 qiántú to have a/no future 有/没有前途 to have a bright or promising or rosy future 前途光明 there's no future (for me) here （我）在这里毫无前途 a sound future 良好的前景 there's no future in it colloquial 那没戏 
④ CountableLinguistics (tense) 将来时 jiāngláishí (verb form) 将来式 jiāngláishì the future 将来时 jiāngláishí 
B.  futures noun plural Finance 期货 qīhuò coffee/currency/grain futures 咖啡/货币/谷物期货 to deal in futures 做期货交易 
C.  adjectiveattributive 
① (of the future, intended) 未来的 wèilái de ‹developments, investment, president›future prospects are good 前景良好 future generations 后代 at some future date 在未来的某一天 for future reference 供日后参考 my future husband 我未来的丈夫 a future life Religion 来世 
② Linguistics 将来时的 jiāngláishí de ‹tense, form›
future 
ˈfyo͞oCHər

▶noun
1 (usually the future) the time or a period of time following the moment of speaking or writing; time regarded as still to come: we plan on getting married in the near future 
work on the building will be halted for the foreseeable future. 
• events that will or are likely to happen in the time to come: nobody can predict the future. 
• used to refer to what will happen to someone or something in the time to come: a blueprint for the future of American fast food. 
• a prospect of success or happiness: he'd decided that there was no future in the gang 
I began to believe I might have a future as an artist. 
• Grammar a tense of verbs expressing events that have not yet happened.
2 (futures) Finance short for futures contract. 
▶adjective [attributive] at a later time; going or likely to happen or exist: the needs of future generations. 
• (of a person) planned or destined to hold a specified position: his future wife. 
• existing after death: expectation of a future life. 
• Grammar (of a tense) expressing an event yet to happen. 
PHRASES
for future reference see reference. in future chiefly British from now on: she would be more careful in future.DERIVATIVES futureless 
ˈfyo͞oCHərləs 
adjectiveORIGIN late Middle English: via Old French from Latin futurus, future participle of esse ‘be’ (from the stem fu-, ultimately from a base meaning ‘grow, become’).
