gas 
BrE ɡas, AmE ɡæs 

A.  noun(plural gases or especially AmE gasses) 
① Countable and uncountableChemistry, Physics 气体 qìtǐ 
② Uncountable(fuel) 燃气 ránqì to cook with gas 用煤气做饭 to turn up/down the gas 打开/关闭煤气 on a low/medium/high gas (in cooking) 用小火/中火/大火 to use bottled gas 使用罐装液化气 
③ Uncountable(anaesthetic) 麻醉气 mázuìqì to have gas Dentistry 使用麻醉气 gas and air Medicine 混合气体镇痛剂 
④ UncountableMilitary 毒气 dúqì 
⑤ Uncountable AmE (petrol) 汽油 qìyóu to stop for gas 停车加油 to step on the gas literal 踩油门 figurative 加快速度 jiākuài sùdù to take one's foot off the gas literal 松开油门 figurative 放慢速度 fàngmàn sùdù 
⑥ Uncountable AmE (in the alimentary canal) 肠气 chángqì 
B.  transitive verb (present participle etc. -ss-) (poison with gas) 向…施放毒气 xiàng… shīfàng dúqì she gassed herself 她开煤气自杀了 
C.  intransitive verb(present participle etc. -ss-) BrE colloquial (chatter) 闲聊 xiánliáo to gas away about [something]; 没完没了地聊某事 PHRASAL VERB gas up AmE colloquial 
A.  intransitive verb 加汽油 jiā qìyóu 
B.  transitive verb[gas up something], [gas something up] 给…加油 gěi… jiāyóu ‹car›
gas 
ɡas

▶noun (plural gases or gasses)
1 an airlike fluid substance which expands freely to fill any space available, irrespective of its quantity: hot balls of gas that become stars 
poisonous gases. 
• Physics a gaseous substance that cannot be liquefied by the application of pressure alone. Compare with vapor. 
• a flammable gas used as a fuel. 
• a gaseous anesthetic such as nitrous oxide, used in dentistry. 
• gas or vapor used as a poisonous agent to kill or disable an enemy in warfare. 
• North American gas generated in the alimentary canal; flatulence. 
• Mining an explosive mixture of firedamp with air.
2 North American informal short for gasoline. 
• used in reference to power or the accelerator of an automobile: I ordered my friend to step on the gas.
3 (a gas) informal a person or thing that is entertaining or amusing: the party would be a gas. 
▶verb (gases, gassed, gassing) [with object]
1 kill or harm by exposure to poisonous gas. 
• [no object] (of a storage battery or dry cell) give off gas.
2 North American informal fill the tank of (an engine or motor vehicle) with gasoline: after gassing up the car, he went into the restaurant.
3 [no object] informal talk, especially excessively, idly, or boastfully: I thought you'd never stop gassing. 
PHRASES
run out of gas North American informal run out of energy; lose momentum.ORIGIN mid 17th century: invented by 
J.  
B.  van Helmont (1577–1644), Belgian chemist, to denote an occult principle that he believed to exist in all matter; suggested by Greek khaos ‘chaos,’ with Dutch g representing Greek kh .
