gauge 
BrE ɡeɪdʒ, AmE ɡeɪdʒ 

A.  noun 
① (standard measure) (thickness) 标准厚度 biāozhǔn hòudù (width) 标准宽度 biāozhǔn kuāndù the gauge of the wire/screw 金属丝/螺丝钉的直径 the gauge of a sheet of metal/plastic 一块金属/塑料板的厚度 what gauge is the wool? 这种毛线的隔距是多少？ a 12-gauge shotgun 12号口径的猎枪 
② Railways 轨距 guǐjù 
③ (measuring instrument) 测量仪器 cèliáng yíqì oil/fuel/petrol gauge 油量计/燃油表/汽油表 height gauge 高度计 
④ figurative (way of judging) 判断方法 pànduàn fāngfǎ (way of estimating) 估计方法 gūjì fāngfǎ a good gauge of character 衡量性格的好方法 
B.  transitive verb 
① (measure) 精确测量 jīngquè cèliáng ‹diameter, temperature›
② (judge) 估计 gūjì ‹strength, capacity›; 判断 pànduàn ‹reaction, sentiments›
gauge 
ɡāj 
(chiefly technical also gage) 
▶noun
1 an instrument or device for measuring the magnitude, amount, or contents of something, typically with a visual display of such information. 
• a tool for checking whether something conforms to a desired dimension. 
• a means of estimating something; a criterion or test: emigration is perhaps the best gauge of public unease.
2 the thickness, size, or capacity of something, especially as a standard measure, in particular: 
• the diameter of a string, fiber, tube, etc.: [as modifier] : a fine 0.018-inch gauge wire. 
• [in combination] a measure of the diameter of a gun barrel, or of its ammunition, expressed as the number of spherical pieces of shot of the same diameter as the barrel that can be made from
1 pound (454 g) of lead: [as modifier] : a 12-gauge shotgun. 
• [in combination] the thickness of sheet metal or plastic: [as modifier] : 500-gauge polyethylene. 
• the distance between the rails of a line of railroad track: the line was laid to a gauge of
2 ft.
9 in.
3 (usually the gage) Nautical, historical the position of a sailing vessel to windward (weather gage) or leeward (lee gage) of another. 
▶verb [with object]
1 estimate or determine the magnitude, amount, or volume of: astronomers can gauge the star's intrinsic brightness. 
• form a judgment or estimate of (a situation, mood, etc.): she is unable to gauge his mood.
2 measure the dimensions of (an object) with a gauge: when dry, the assemblies can be gauged exactly and planed to width. 
• (as adjective gauged) made in standard dimensions: gauged sets of strings. DERIVATIVES gaugeable 
ˈɡājəb(ə)l 
adjective. gauger 
ˈɡājər 
nounORIGIN Middle English (denoting a standard measure): from Old French gauge (noun), gauger (verb), variant of Old Northern French jauge (noun), jauger (verb), of unknown origin.
