general 
BrE ˈdʒɛn(ə)r(ə)l, AmE ˈdʒɛn(ə)rəl 

A.  adjective 
① (widespread in application) 普遍的 pǔbiàn de ‹interest, approval, opinion, chaos›; 通常的 tōngcháng de ‹principle, axiom, conclusion›; 全体的 quántǐ de ‹meeting, strike›; 群众性的 qúnzhòngxìng de ‹movement›words in general use 普遍使用的词汇 the photocopier is for general use 这台复印机是共用的 general consensus 一致的赞成 apple pie is a general favourite 苹果馅饼是大家都喜欢的食品 there was a general exodus 众人一起撤离了 the bad weather has been fairly general 各地几乎都是坏天气 general pandemonium 一片混乱 as a general rule 通常 
② attributive (overall, not detailed) 整体的 zhěngtǐ de ‹appearance, overview›; 总体的 zǒngtǐ de ‹plan, condition, feeling, decline›; 笼统的 lǒngtǒng de ‹description, statement, wording›; 大致的 dàzhì de ‹request, outline, direction›; 泛泛的 fànfàn de ‹discussion, conversation›to improve one's general fitness 改善总体健康状况 a general view of the building 大楼的概貌 do you get the general idea? 你理解大意了吗？ I've got the general picture 我了解了大致情况 to talk in general terms 笼统地谈 this is the general plan of action 这是大致的行动计划 
③ (not specialized) 非专门的 fēizhuānmén de ‹information, book, magazine, labourer›; 普通的 pǔtōng de ‹education, linguistics, reader, office›; 普及性的 pǔjíxìng de ‹science›; 综合的 zōnghé de ‹dealer›; 杂项的 záxiàng de ‹expenses, expenditure›a general index 总目 general office work 办公室杂务 general household duties 家务 
④ (normal, usual) 正常的 zhèngcháng de ‹practice, solution, remedy›in the general way of things 通常情况下 the general run of people 普通人 the general routine 常规 
⑤ (chief) 首席的 shǒuxí de consul/inspector general 总领事/监察长 Attorney/Governor/Secretary General 检察总长/总督/秘书长 
B.  noun 
① Countable and uncountableMilitary (officer) 将官 jiàngguān (rank) 将军 jiāngjūn general of the army/air force AmE 陆军/空军五星上将 to make [somebody] a general 擢升某人为上将 General Charles de Gaulle 夏尔戴高乐将军 
② Uncountablein general (for the most part, mostly, usually) 多数情况下 duōshù qíngkuàng xià (referring to a wide-ranging group) 一般来讲 yībān lái jiǎng 
general 
ˈjen(ə)rəl

▶adjective
1 affecting or concerning all or most people, places, or things; widespread: books of general interest. 
• not specialized or limited in range of subject, application, activity, etc.: brush up on your general knowledge. 
• (of a rule, principle, etc.) true for all or most cases. 
• normal or usual: it is not general practice to confirm or deny such reports.
2 considering or including the main features or elements of something, and disregarding exceptions; overall: they fired in the general direction of the enemy 
a general introduction to the subject.
3 [often in titles] chief or principal: a general manager. 
▶noun
1 a commander of an army, or an army officer of very high rank. 
• an officer in the US Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps ranking above lieutenant general. 
• the head of a religious order organized on quasi-military lines, e.g., the Jesuits, the Dominicans, or the Salvation Army.
2 (the general) archaic the general public. 
PHRASES
as a general rule in most cases. in general
1 usually; mainly: in general, Alexander was a peaceful, loving man.
2 as a whole: our understanding of culture in general and of literature in particular.ORIGIN Middle English: via Old French from Latin generalis, from genus, gener- ‘class, race, kind.’ The noun primarily denotes a person having overall authority: the sense ‘army commander’ is an abbreviation of captain general, from French capitaine général ‘commander in chief.’
