ghost 
BrE ɡəʊst, AmE ɡoʊst 

A.  noun 
① (spectre) 鬼 guǐ to believe in ghosts 相信有鬼 
② figurative (memory) 往事的阴影 wǎngshì de yīnyǐng to lay the ghost of [something] (to rest) 消除某事物留下的阴影 
③ figurative (trace) 一丝 yīsī the ghost of a smile 一丝微笑 you don't have a ghost of a chance of winning 你毫无获胜的机会 
④ (spirit) 灵魂 línghún to give up the ghost «person» 死 «vehicle» humorous 报废 bàofèi 
⑤ Television 重影 chóngyǐng 
B.  transitive verb = ghostwrite 
A.  
ghost 
ɡōst

▶noun an apparition of a dead person that is believed to appear or become manifest to the living, typically as a nebulous image: the building is haunted by the ghost of a monk 
figurative : the ghosts of past deeds. 
• a faint trace of something: she gave the ghost of a smile. 
• a faint secondary image produced by a fault in an optical system or on a cathode ray screen, e.g., by faulty television reception or internal reflection in a mirror or camera. 
▶verb
1 [with object] act as ghostwriter of (a work): his memoirs were smoothly ghosted by a journalist.
2 [no object] glide smoothly and effortlessly: they ghosted up the river.
3 [with object] end a personal relationship with (someone) by suddenly and without explanation withdrawing from all communication: I didn't want to ghost her, so we ended up having ‘the talk’ and it was horrible 
being ghosted is one of the toughest ways to be dumped 
[no object] : people who ghost are primarily focused on avoiding their own emotional discomfort. 
PHRASES
the ghost in the machine Philosophy the mind viewed as distinct from the body (usually used in a derogatory fashion by critics of dualism). [coined by the philosopher Gilbert Ryle (1949).] give up the ghost die. 
• (of a machine) stop working. look as if you have seen a ghost look very pale and shocked. not stand a ghost of a chance have no chance at all.DERIVATIVES ghostlike 
ˈɡōs(t)ˌlīk 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English gāst (in the sense ‘spirit, soul’), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch geest and German Geist. The gh- spelling occurs first in Caxton, probably influenced by Flemish gheest .
