glass 
BrE ɡlɑːs, AmE ɡlæs 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(substance) 玻璃 bōli a piece/pane of glass 一片玻璃/一块窗玻璃 mind the broken glass! 当心碎玻璃！ 
② Countable(drinking vessel) 玻璃杯 bōlibēi (glassful) 一玻璃杯 yī bōlibēi a glass of wine 一玻璃杯葡萄酒 
③ Uncountable(glassware) 玻璃器皿 bōli qìmǐn 
④ Countableespecially BrE dated (mirror) 镜子 jìngzi (magnifying glass) 放大镜 fàngdàjìng 
⑤ Countable(telescope) 望远镜 wàngyuǎnjìng 
⑥ Uncountable(of greenhouse, cold frame) 温室玻璃 wēnshì bōli to cultivate [something] under glass 在温室中种植某物 
B.  glasses noun plural 
① 眼镜 yǎnjìng a pair of glasses 一副眼镜 he wears reading glasses 他戴老花眼镜 
② (binoculars) 双筒望远镜 shuāngtǒng wàngyuǎnjìng PHRASAL VERBS glass in transitive verb[glass in something], [glass something in] 用玻璃罩住 yòng bōli zhàozhù glass over transitive verb = glass in 
glass 
ɡlas

▶noun
1 a hard, brittle substance, typically transparent or translucent, made by fusing sand with soda, lime, and sometimes other ingredients and cooling rapidly. It is used to make windows, drinking containers, and other articles: glass shapes a piece of glass 
[as modifier] : a glass door. 
• a substance similar to glass that has solidified from a molten state without crystallizing.
2 a thing made from, or partly from, glass, in particular: 
• a container to drink from: a beer glass. 
• glassware. 
• greenhouses or cold frames considered collectively. 
• chiefly British a mirror. 
• archaic an hourglass.
3 a lens, or an optical instrument containing a lens or lenses, in particular a monocle or a magnifying lens.
4 the liquid or amount of liquid contained in a glass; a glassful: a glass of lemonade 
I'll have another glass, please. 
▶verb [with object]
1 cover or enclose with glass: the inn has a long balcony, now glassed in.
2 (especially in hunting) scan (one's surroundings) with binoculars: the first day was spent glassing the rolling hills.
3 literary reflect in or as if in a mirror: the opposite slopes glassed themselves in the deep dark water. 
PHRASES
the glass is half-full (or half-empty) used to refer to an optimistic (or pessimistic) outlook on life: she remains a person for whom the glass is always half-full 
I like to think of myself as a glass half-full kind of guy.people (who live) in glass houses shouldn't throw stones proverb you shouldn't criticize others when you have similar faults of your own.DERIVATIVES glassful 
ˈɡlasˌfo͝ol 
noun (plural glassfuls) . glassless adjective. glasslike 
-ˌlīk 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English glæs, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch glas and German Glas .
