glory 
BrE ˈɡlɔːri, AmE ˈɡlɔri 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(honour, distinction) 光荣 guāngróng to the greater glory of [somebody]/[something]; 为了给某人/某物增添荣耀 to cover oneself in glory 满载荣誉 neither party particularly covered themselves in glory 双方都没有获得什么特别的赞誉 to bask/bathe in [somebody's] reflected glory 沐浴在某人的荣耀中 
② UncountableReligion 赞颂 zànsòng glory be! 多么伟大！ ［宗教仪式中的感叹句］glory to God in the highest 在至高之处荣耀归于神 
③ Uncountable(splendour) (of person) 杰出 jiéchū (of place) 壮丽 zhuànglì (of Heaven) 天国的荣耀 tiānguó de róngyào in all one's glory 在鼎盛时期 
④ Countable and uncountable(source of pride) 带来荣耀的事 dàilai róngyào de shì the cathedral is the glory of the city 大教堂是城市的骄傲 
⑤ Countable and uncountable(beauty) 美丽 měilì the glory of the dawn sky 黎明天空的绚丽 
B.  glories noun plural 
① (splendours) 辉煌 huīhuáng the glories of Venice 威尼斯的辉煌 
② (glorious deeds) 昔日的荣耀 xīrì de róngyào past glories 昔日的荣耀 xīrì de róngyào 
C.  intransitive verb to glory in [something]; (exult in) 因某事物而欣喜 (take pride in) 因某事物而骄傲 yīn mǒu shìwù ér jiāo'ào 
glory 
ˈɡlôrē

▶noun (plural glories)
1 high renown or honor won by notable achievements: to fight and die for the glory of one's nation.
2 magnificence or great beauty: the train has been restored to all its former glory. 
• (often glories) a thing that is beautiful or distinctive; a special cause for pride, respect, or delight: the glories of Paris. 
• the splendor and bliss of heaven: with the saints in glory.
3 praise, worship, and thanksgiving offered to a deity.
4 a luminous ring or halo, especially as depicted around the head of Jesus Christ or a saint. 
▶verb [no object] (glory in) take great pride or pleasure in: they were individuals who gloried in their independence. 
• exult in unpleasantly or boastfully: readers tended to defend their paper or even to glory in its bias. 
PHRASES
glory be! expressing enthusiastic piety. 
• informal used as an exclamation of surprise or delight. 
• (Glory Be) [as noun] (especially in Roman Catholic use) the doxology beginning “Glory be to the Father.” go to glory die; be destroyed. in one's glory informal in a state of extreme joy or exaltation.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French glorie, from Latin gloria .
