God 
BrE ɡɒd, AmE ɡɑd 

A.  noun 
① god Religion (divine being) 神 shén Norse gods 北欧诸神 
② god (person) [被崇拜的] 偶像 ǒuxiàng (thing) 推崇备至的事物 tuīchóng bèizhì de shìwù to be [somebody's] god; 是某人的神圣要务 money is his god 他视钱如命 
B.  proper noun 
① Religion (supreme being) (in Christianity) 上帝 Shàngdì (in Catholicism) 天主 Tiānzhǔ so help me God 上天作证 would to God that … 但愿… a man of God 教士 
② colloquial (in exclamations) (exasperated) 见鬼 jiànguǐ (surprised) 居然这样 jūrán zhèyàng my God 天啊 by God 老天在上 God forbid he should find out! 但愿他不会查明真相！ she lives God knows where 天晓得她住在哪里 God knows I've tried! 请上天作证我已经努力了！ for God's sake 看在上帝的分上 God willing 如系天意 
God 
ɡäd

▶noun
1 (in Christianity and other monotheistic religions) the creator and ruler of the universe and source of all moral authority; the supreme being.
2 (god) (in certain other religions) a superhuman being or spirit worshiped as having power over nature or human fortunes; a deity: a moon god 
an incarnation of the god Vishnu. 
• an image, idol, animal, or other object worshiped as divine or symbolizing a god. 
• used as a conventional personification of fate: he dialed the number and, the gods relenting, got through at once.
3 (god) an adored, admired, or influential person: he has little time for the fashion victims for whom he is a god. 
• a thing accorded the supreme importance appropriate to a god: don't make money your god.
4 (the gods) informal the gallery in a theater. 
▶exclam. used for emphasis or to express emotions such as surprise, anger, or distress: God, what did I do to deserve this? 
God, how I hate that woman! 
Good God, where have you been? 
PHRASES
for God's sake! see sake1 ( sense 3). God bless an expression of good wishes on parting. God damn (you, him, etc) may (you, he, etc.) be damned.God the Father (in Christian doctrine) the first person of the Trinity, God as creator and supreme authority. God forbid see forbid. God grant used to express a wish that something should happen: God grant he will soon regain his freedom. God help (you, him, etc.) used to express the belief that someone is in a difficult, dangerous, or hopeless situation: God help anyone who tried to cheer me out of my bad mood.God the Son (in Christian doctrine) Christ regarded as the second person of the Trinity; God as incarnate and resurrected savior. God willing used to express the wish that one will be able to do as one intends or that something will happen as planned: one day, God willing, she and John might have a daughter. in God's name used in questions to emphasize anger or surprise: what in God's name are you doing up there? play God behave as if all-powerful or supremely important. please God used to emphasize a strong wish or hope: please God the money will help us find a cure. thank God see thank. to God used after a verb to emphasize a strong wish or hope: I hope to God you've got something else to put on. with God dead and in heaven.DERIVATIVES godhood 
-ˌho͝od 
noun. godship 
ˈɡädˌSHip 
noun. godward 
-wərd 
adjective & adverb. godwards 
-wərdz 
adverbORIGIN Old English, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch god and German Gott .
