governor 
BrE ˈɡʌv(ə)nə, AmE ˈɡəv(ə)nər 
noun 
① (of province, town) 地方行政长官 dìfāng xíngzhèng zhǎngguān a provincial governor 省长 
② (of colony) 总督 zǒngdū 
③ (of US state) 州长 zhōuzhǎng 
④ (head of institution) 主管 zhǔguǎn the Governor of the Bank of England 英格兰银行总裁 a prison governor 典狱长 
⑤ (board member) 董事 dǒngshì the Board of governors 董事会 
⑥ BrE colloquial dated (employer) 老板 lǎobǎn ; (father) 爸爸 bàba = guv 
⑦ Technology 调节器 tiáojiéqì 
governor 
▶noun the governor of the island has issued a weather alert: leader, ruler, chief, head; historical intendant; premier, president, viceroy, chancellor; administrator, principal, director, chairperson, chair, superintendent, commissioner, controller; informal boss.REFLECTIONS Lydia Davisgubernatorial Even though I have never used it in a piece of writing, and probably never will, this word has always fascinated me because of its odd divergence from its noun, governor. Why did the noun and the adjective develop in different directions? The adjective is actually closer to the origin of both, which was the Latin gubernator ('governor') and gubernare ('to steer'). The original, primary meaning of 'to govern' was 'to steer.' In fact, there is a word in French, gouvernail, that means 'rudder' or 'helm'—what we need to steer a boat. The Latin gubernator evolved into the Old French gouverneur and hence, eventually, into our English governor. (The Latin also evolved into the Spanish gobernador —keeping the b —and the Italian governatore.) But of course it's all more complicated, as the development of language always is, because an English word gubernator was also in use starting in the 1520s, though it was rare—and so was gubernatrix, meaning a female ruler. Gubernator disappeared from use and governor remained. I don't know why our adjective did not evolve in the same way as our noun. Why didn't it turn into governoratorial or governorial ? I have always enjoyed pronouncing gubernatorial, as though its rather crude sound, incorporating 'goober,' is concealing its more elegant, softer, silkier cousin, 'govern.' And I remember that during the presidency of Jimmy Carter, former governor of Georgia, there was much talk of his association with the cultivation of peanuts (colloquially known as 'goobers'), and I could not help feeling that, in his case, goober-natorial, as used to describe the office of the governor of the Peanut State, was doubly appropriate.Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
