grace 
BrE ɡreɪs, AmE ɡreɪs 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(gracefulness, charm) 优雅 yōuyǎ to do [something] with grace; 优雅地做某事 to have grace/no grace 仪态优雅/粗鄙 the social graces 社交风度 
② UncountableReligion (kindness) 天恩 tiān'ēn by the grace of God 承蒙天恩 (to be) in a state of grace 怀着受天恩眷顾的心情 there but for the grace of God go I 承蒙天恩，我幸免于难 to fall from grace literal 堕落 figurative 失宠 shīchǒng 
③ Uncountable(time allowance) 宽限期 kuānxiànqī to have/be given a week's grace 有/获得一个星期的宽限 a period of grace 宽限期 kuānxiànqī 
④ Uncountable(graciousness) 大度 dàdù (to do [something]) with good/bad grace; 心甘情愿/勉强地（做某事） to have the good grace to do [something]; 通情达理地做某事 
⑤ Countable(quality) 优点 yōudiǎn 
⑥ Uncountable and countable(prayer) 谢恩祷告 xiè'ēn dǎogào to say grace 做谢恩祷告 
⑦ Grace Uncountable(title) 阁下 géxià [对公爵、公爵夫人或大主教的尊称]His/Her/Your Grace 阁下 géxià 
B.  graces noun plural 
① (affected mannerisms) airs and graces 矫揉造作 jiǎo róu zào zuò to give oneself/put on airs and graces 装腔作势 zhuāng qiāng zuò shì 
② (favour) 宠爱 chǒng'ài to be in [somebody's] good graces 得到某人的欢心 
③ the (Three) Graces Mythology 美惠三女神 Měihuì sān nǚshén 
C.  transitive verb 
① (decorate) 装饰 zhuāngshì ‹room, building, page›to be graced with [something]; «facade, square» 被装饰以某物 
② (honour) 给…带来荣耀 gěi… dàilai róngyào ‹person›; 使…增色 shǐ… zēngsè ‹occasion, event, ceremony›the Queen graced us with her presence 女王的驾临为我们带来了荣耀 
③ (bless) to be graced with [something]; 天生具有 tiānshēng jùyǒu ‹beauty, intelligence›
grace 
ɡrās

▶noun
1 simple elegance or refinement of movement: she moved through the water with effortless grace. 
• courteous goodwill: at least he has the grace to admit his debt to her. 
• (graces) an attractively polite manner of behaving: she has all the social graces.
2 (in Christian belief) the free and unmerited favor of God, as manifested in the salvation of sinners and the bestowal of blessings. 
• a divinely given talent or blessing: the graces of the Holy Spirit. 
• the condition or fact of being favored by someone: he fell from grace because of drug use at the Olympics.
3 (also grace period) a period officially allowed for payment of a sum due or for compliance with a law or condition, especially an extended period granted as a special favor: another three days' grace.
4 a short prayer of thanks said before or after a meal: before dinner the Reverend Newman said grace.
5 (His, Her, or Your Grace) used as forms of description or address for a duke, duchess, or archbishop: His Grace, the Duke of Atholl. 
▶verb [with object] do honor or credit to (someone or something) by one's presence: she bowed out from the sport she has graced for two decades. 
• (of a person or thing) be an attractive presence in or on; adorn: Ms. Pasco has graced the front pages of magazines like Elle and Vogue. 
PHRASES
be in someone's good (or bad) graces be regarded by someone with favor (or disfavor). there but for the grace of God (go I) used to acknowledge one's good fortune in avoiding another's mistake or misfortune.the (Three) Graces Greek Mythology three beautiful goddesses (Aglaia, Thalia, and Euphrosyne), daughters of Zeus. They were believed to personify and bestow charm, grace, and beauty. with good (or bad) grace in a willing and happy (or reluctant and resentful) manner.ORIGIN Middle English: via Old French from Latin gratia, from gratus ‘pleasing, thankful’; related to grateful .
