graduate 
A.  /BrE ˈɡradʒʊət, ˈɡradjʊət, AmE ˈɡrædʒ(ə)wət
noun 
① University 学士学位获得者 xuéshì xuéwèi huòdézhě a graduate in law, a law graduate 法学学士 a graduate of or from Oxford (University) 牛津大学毕业生 before noun 研究生的 yánjiūshēng de ‹studies, accommodation, centre›a graduate student 研究生 
② AmE School 毕业生 bìyèshēng a high school graduate 中学毕业生 
B.  /BrE ˈɡradʒʊeɪt, ˈɡradjʊeɪt, AmE ˈɡrædʒəˌweɪt
intransitive verb 
① University 获得学位 huòdé xuéwèi he graduated from Oxford in 1995 他1995年毕业于牛津大学 to graduate from or at the university of life figurative humorous 从生活这所大学毕业 
② AmE School 毕业 bìyè to graduate from high school 中学毕业 
③ figurative (progress) 渐进 jiànjìn to graduate (from [something]) to [something]; （从某物）渐变到某物 he started with motorbikes but has now graduated to his first car 他一开始骑的是摩托车，但现在过渡到有了自己的第一辆小汽车 
C.  /BrE ˈɡradʒʊeɪt, ˈɡradjʊeɪt, AmE ˈɡrædʒəˌweɪt
transitive verb 
① Finance 将…分等级 jiāng… fēn děngjí ‹contributions, payments›a graduated tax scheme 累进税制 
② Technology 刻度数于 kè dùshù yú ‹measure, vessel›a ruler graduated in inches 标有英寸刻度的尺子 
③ AmE (give degree to) 授予…学士 shòuyǔ… xuéshì this college graduated fifty students last year 该学院去年有50名学生毕业 
graduate 
▶noun 
ˈɡraj(ə)wət 

1 a person who has successfully completed a course of study or training, especially a person who has been awarded an undergraduate academic degree. 
• North American a person who has received a high school diploma: she is 19, a graduate of Lincoln High.
2 a graduated cup, tube, flask, or measuring glass, used especially by chemists and pharmacists. 
▶verb 
ˈɡrajəˌwāt 

1 [no object] successfully complete an academic degree, course of training, or high school: I graduated from West Point in 1965. 
• [with object] US informal receive an academic degree from: she graduated college in 1970. 
• [with object] North American confer a degree or other academic qualification on: the school graduated more than one hundred arts majors in its first year. 
• (graduate to) move up to (a more advanced level or position): he started with motorbikes but now he's graduated to his first car.
2 [with object] arrange in a series or according to a scale: (as adjective graduated) : a graduated tax. 
• mark out (an instrument or container) in degrees or other proportionate divisions: the stem was graduated with marks for each hour 
[as adjective] : graduated cylinders.
3 [with object] change (something, typically color or shade) gradually or step by step: the color is graduated from the middle of the frame to the top. 
▶adjective 
ˈɡraj(ə)wət 
[attributive] relating to graduate school education: the graduate faculty. 
• having graduated from a school or academic program: a graduate electrical engineer. ORIGIN late Middle English: from medieval Latin graduat- ‘graduated,’ from graduare ‘take a degree,’ from Latin gradus ‘degree, step.’ usage: The traditional use is “be graduated from”: she will be graduated from medical school in June. However, it is now more common to say “graduate from”: she will graduate from medical school in June. The use of graduate as a transitive verb, as in he graduated high school last week, is increasingly common, especially in speech, but is considered incorrect by most traditionalists.
