grade 
BrE ɡreɪd, AmE ɡreɪd 

A.  noun 
① Busn (of goods, produce) 等级 děngjí high-grade meat 优质猪肉 large-grade eggs 大号鸡蛋 
② especially AmE (mark) 评分等级 píngfēn děngjí to get good grades 获得优良成绩 to be awarded or get two A grades 得两个A 
③ AmE (class, year) 年级 niánjí 
④ ( also Grade) BrE (examination, level of skill) 级别 jíbié grade IV piano 钢琴四级 
⑤ Administration (in hierarchy) 级别 jíbié a salary grade 工资级别 to make the grade (reach the standard) 达到标准 (succeed) 成功 
⑥ Military 军衔 jūnxián 
⑦ AmE (gradient) 斜坡 xiépō a steep grade 陡坡 
B.  transitive verb 
① (categorize by quality, size) 将…按级分类 jiāng… àn jí fēnlèi ‹produce, accommodation, amenities›to be graded by or according to size 按大小分等级 
② (categorize by level of difficulty) 使…逐级变化 shǐ… zhú jí biànhuà ‹questions›graded exercises for the piano 钢琴渐进练习 
③ especially AmE (mark) 给…评分 gěi… píngfēn ‹pupils, work, papers›the examination papers have been graded 试卷已经评阅好了 
④ (in civil engineering) 把…筑平 bǎ… zhùpíng ‹road, land›
grade 
ɡrād

▶noun
1 a particular level of rank, quality, proficiency, intensity, or value: sea salt is usually available in coarse or fine grades 
grade AA butter. 
• a level in a salary or employment structure. 
• chiefly North American a mark indicating the quality of a student's work: I got good grades last semester. 
• British an examination, especially in music: I took grade five and got a distinction. 
• (with specifying ordinal number) those students in a school or school system who are grouped by age or ability for teaching at a particular level for a year: she teaches first grade. 
• (in historical linguistics) one in a series of related root forms exhibiting ablaut. 
• Zoology a group of animals at a similar evolutionary level.
2 chiefly North American a gradient or slope: just over the crest of a long seven percent grade.
3 [usually as modifier] a variety of cattle produced by crossing with a superior breed: grade stock. 
▶verb [with object] (usually be graded)
1 arrange in or allocate to grades; class or sort: they are graded according to thickness 
(as adjective graded) : carefully graded exercises. 
• chiefly North American give a mark to (a student or a piece of work).
2 [no object] pass gradually from one level, especially a shade of color, into another: the sky graded from blue to white on the horizon.
3 reduce (a road) to an easy gradient.
4 cross (livestock) with a superior breed. 
PHRASES
at grade North American on the same level: the crossing at grade of two streets. make the grade informal succeed; reach the desired standard.ORIGIN early 16th century: from French, or from Latin gradus ‘step.’ Originally used as a unit of measurement of angles (a degree of arc), the term later referred to degrees of merit or quality.
