grand 
BrE ɡrand, AmE ɡrænd 

A.  adjective 
① (impressive) 壮观的 zhuàngguān de ‹building›(of great importance) 重要的 zhòngyào de ‹ceremony›(ambitious) 宏大的 hóngdà de ‹design, concept›a grand palace 雄伟的宫殿 on a grand scale 大规模地 the wedding was a very grand occasion 婚礼场面非常隆重 the grand old man of English politics 英国政界的元老 
② (self-important) 傲慢的 àomàn de ‹manner, action›to put on a grand air 摆出一副了不起的样子 to make a grand gesture 装腔作势 
③ colloquial (fine, excellent) 极好的 jí hǎo de ‹adventure, weather›to have a grand time 玩得很开心 he did a grand job 他干得很出色 
B.  noun 
① (plural grand) colloquial (sum of money) BrE 一千英镑 yīqiān yīngbàng ; AmE 一千美元 yīqiān měiyuán 
② colloquial (piano) 大钢琴 dàgāngqín 
grand 
ɡrand

▶adjective
1 magnificent and imposing in appearance, size, or style: a grand country house 
the dinner party was very grand. 
• (of a person) of high rank and with an appearance and manner appropriate to it: she was such a grand lady. 
• large or ambitious in scope or scale: his grand design for the future of Europe 
collecting on a grand scale. 
• used in names of places or buildings to suggest size or splendor: the Grand Canyon 
the Grand Hotel.
2 [attributive] denoting the largest or most important item of its kind: the grand entrance. 
• of the highest rank (used especially in official titles): the grand duke. 
• Law (of a crime) serious: grand theft. Compare with petty ( sense 2).
3 informal very good or enjoyable; excellent: we had a grand day.
4 [in combination] (in names of family relationships) denoting one generation removed in ascent or descent: a grand-niece. 
▶noun
1 (plural same) informal a thousand dollars or pounds: he gets thirty-five grand a year.
2 a grand piano. 
PHRASES
a (or the) grand old man of a man long and highly respected in (a particular field): the grand old man of the Republican Party.DERIVATIVES grandness 
ˈɡran(d)nəs 
nounORIGIN Middle English: from Old French grant, grand, from Latin grandis ‘full-grown, big, great.’ The original uses were to denote family relationships ( sense
4 of the adjective, following Old French usage) and as a title (the Grand, translating Old French le Grand); hence the senses ‘of the highest rank,’ ‘of great importance.’
