grass 
BrE ɡrɑːs, AmE ɡræs 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(wild) 草 cǎo a blade of grass 一片草叶 not let the grass grow under one's feet figurative (in getting sth. done) 不拖拉 (in taking an opportunity) 不坐失良机 to kick [something] into the long grass figurative colloquial 把某事搁置一边 
② Countable(as botanical classification) 禾本科植物 héběnkē zhíwù 
③ Uncountable(lawn) 草地 cǎodì (pasture) 草场 cǎochǎng keep off the grass! 禁止踩踏草地！ to mow or cut the grass 割草 the grass is always greener on the other side (of the fence) proverb 这山望着那山高 to put … out to grass 赶…去吃草 figurative humorous 迫使…退休 pòshǐ… tuìxiū to play on grass (in tennis) 在草地球场上打球 
④ Uncountablecolloquial (marijuana) 大麻 dàmá 
⑤ Countable BrE colloquial (informer) 向警方告密的人 xiàng jǐngfāng gàomì de rén 
B.  transitive verb 在…上种草 zài… shang zhòng cǎo ‹garden, field, land›
C.  intransitive verb BrE colloquial pejorative 告密 gàomì to grass on [somebody], to grass [somebody] up; 告发某人 
grass 
ɡras

▶noun
1 vegetation consisting of typically short plants with long narrow leaves, growing wild or cultivated on lawns and pasture, and as a fodder crop. 
• ground covered with grass: he sat down on the grass. 
• pastureland: the farms were mostly given over to grass.
2 the mainly herbaceous plant that constitutes grass, which has jointed stems and spikes of small, wind-pollinated flowers. Grasses belong to the large family Gramineae (or Poaceae; the grass family), and form the dominant vegetation of many areas of the world. The possession of a growing point that is mainly at ground level makes grasses suitable as the food of many grazing animals, and for use in lawns and playing fields.
3 informal marijuana.
4 British informal a police informer. [perhaps related to the 19th-century rhyming slang grasshopper ‘copper.’] 
▶verb [with object]
1 (usually be grassed) cover (an area of ground) with grass: hillsides so closely grassed over, they seem to be painted green. 
• US feed (livestock) with grass.
2 [no object] British informal inform the police of criminal activity or plans: someone had grassed on the thieves. 
PHRASES
the grass is always greener on the other side of the fence proverb other people's lives or situations always seem better than one's own.not let the grass grow under one's feet not delay in acting or taking an opportunity.DERIVATIVES grassless adjective. grasslike 
-ˌlīk 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English græs, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch gras,German Gras, also ultimately to green and grow .
