great 
BrE ɡreɪt, AmE ɡreɪt 

A.  adjective 
① usually attributive (measurably large) 大的 dà de ‹size›; 高的 gāo de ‹temperature, percentage›; 长的 cháng de ‹time, distance›; 强的 qiáng de ‹strength›a great expanse of forest 一大片森林 at great speed 高速地 from a great height 从很高的地方 tortoises can live to a very great age 龟的寿命很长 
② usually attributive (large in quantity) 大量的 dàliàng de a greater proportion of houses 多数房子 the great majority of consumers 绝大多数消费者 a great deal (of) 许多（的） 
③ usually attributive (large in general size) 非常大的 fēicháng dà de great cliffs 巍峨的悬崖 a great shower of rain 一阵大雨 she heaved a great sigh of relief 她宽慰地长吁了一口气 
④ attributive colloquial (as intensifier) you great buffoon! 你这个十足的小丑！ nǐ zhège shízú de xiǎochǒu ！ a great long list of do's and don'ts 长长的一串行为规范 
⑤ (extreme) 强烈的 qiángliè de the heat is greatest at midday 正午时最热 the wind blew with great force 风刮得很猛 in great danger 处于极度危险中 
⑥ (significant) 重大的 zhòngdà de ‹change, improvement, progress›; 显著的 xiǎnzhù de ‹increase, decrease, difference, similarity›
⑦ usually attributive (intensely felt) 深切的 shēnqiè de ‹emotion, need›my greatest fear is that … 我最担心的是… it is with great pleasure or the greatest pleasure that I … 我满怀热情地… it gives me great pleasure to … …使我感到非常愉快 
⑧ usually attributive (considerably above average) 超乎寻常的 chāohū xúncháng de a matter of great importance 非常重要的事情 she had great difficulty (in) finding a seat 她找座位费了好大劲 to describe [something] in greater detail 更详细地描述某物 I'm in no great hurry (to leave) 我不着急（离开） he's leaving — it's no great loss 他要走了──没什么大不了的 
⑨ usually attributive (exceptionally competent) 杰出的 jiéchū de ‹person, name›great Scott! dated 好家伙！ 
⑩ (important) (of people) 伟大的 wěidà de (of things) 重大的 zhòngdà de Alexander the Great 亚历山大大帝 great and/or small 不论高低贵贱 a great occasion 盛大场面 the great day/moment arrived 重要的一天/时刻到来了 the company has a great future (ahead of it) 这家公司前途无量 the great wines of Bordeaux 著名的波尔多葡萄酒 the great houses of England 英格兰的豪门大宅 
⑪ colloquial (excellent) 极好的 jí hǎo de what was the party like? — great! 晚会怎么样？──棒极了！ it's great to be back! 回来的感觉真好！ the town hall would be great as a venue 地点设在市政厅再好不过了 
⑫ colloquial (healthy, happy) 健康的 jiànkāng de ‹person›; 良好的 liánghǎo de ‹eyesight, hearing›to feel great 感觉很好 to look great 气色不错 he had a great memory 他记性很好 she has a great eye for detail 她擅长观察细节 not to feel great about [something]/doing [something] 对某事/做某事感到不安 
⑬ predicative colloquial (very attractive) to look great 很漂亮 hěn piàoliang to look great with [something] «garment, accessory, colour» 与某物搭配起来很漂亮 yǔ mǒu wù dāpèi qilai hěn piàoliang 
⑭ colloquial (admirable, likeable) 可爱的 kě'ài de ‹person›she's a great kid 她是个好孩子 it was great of them to lend us their caravan 他们把篷车借给我们用了，真好 to be great about [something]; 对…很大度 he was great about the accident/misunderstanding/mistake 他对这次意外/误会/失误并不在意 
⑮ usually attributive (enthusiastic) 痴迷的 chīmí de ‹walker, swimmer, angler›; 狂热的 kuángrè de ‹fan, admirer›he's a great theatregoer 他热衷于去剧院看戏 her father's a great worrier 她父亲对什么事情都不放心 a great friend 密友 to be a great one for [something]/doing [something] colloquial 对某事/做某事非常感兴趣 
⑯ colloquial (very talented) 出色的 chūsè de ‹professional›to be great at [something]/doing [something]; 擅长某事/做某事 to be great on [something]; 通晓某事 to be great with [something]; 擅长应对某事 to be great with [somebody]; 擅长和某人打交道 
⑰ colloquial (very effective or suitable) 好用的 hǎoyòng de ‹implement, gadget, tool›; 有效的 yǒuxiào de ‹medicine, method›; 适宜的 shìyí de ‹day, season, weather, place›; 贴切的 tiēqiè de ‹name, title›to be great for [something]/doing [something]; 适合某事/做某事 great … for [something]/doing [something]; 适合某事/做某事的… it's going to be a great weekend for fishing 这个周末会很适合钓鱼 this is a great place to keep the wine 这个地方很适合保存葡萄酒 
⑱ usually attributive colloquial (favourable, convincing) 极好的 jí hǎo de ‹opportunity, offer, idea, excuse›
⑲ attributive (in names of places, animals, plants) 大的 dà de [用于动植物名、地名、历史事件前]greater celandine 白屈菜 Great Russell Street 罗素大街 the Great Rift Valley 东非大裂谷 
B.  great- attributive (in family relationship) [用于家族中的称呼]great-grandmother (on grandfather's side) 曾祖母 zēngzǔmǔ (on grandmother's side) 曾外祖母 zēngwàizǔmǔ great-great-grandmother (on great-grandfather's side) 高祖母 (on great-grandmother's side) 高外祖母 gāowàizǔmǔ great-great-great-grandmother (on great-great-grandfather's side) 玄祖母 (on great-great-grandmother's side) 玄外祖母 xuánwàizǔmǔ 
C.  adverb colloquial 很好地 hěn hǎo de I'm doing great 我很好 the machine's working great now 机器现在运转正常 everything's going great 一切进展顺利 
D.  noun 
① plus plural verb formal or literary literary (great people) the great 伟人 wěirén the great and the good BrE ironic 大人物 dàrénwù 
② colloquial (sb. important) 要人 yàorén (sth. important) 重要的事物 zhòngyào de shìwù he was one of snooker's all-time greats 他是一位空前的斯诺克巨星 one of the all-time greats of the silent screen 无声电影史上的巨作之一 
③ greatest plus singular or plural verb the greatest 最伟大的人 zuì wěidà de rén we are the greatest! 我们是最棒的！ wǒmen shì zuì bàng de ！ 
E.  exclamationcolloquial 
① (expressing pleasure) 好极了 hǎo jí le 
② ironic (expressing displeasure) 真绝啊 zhēn jué ɑ it's raining — oh great, that's all I need! 下雨了──好啊，偏偏给我来这一场雨！ 
great 
ɡrāt

▶adjective
1 of an extent, amount, or intensity considerably above the normal or average: the article was of great interest 
she showed great potential as an actor. 
• very large and imposing: a great ocean between them. 
• [attributive] used to reinforce another adjective of size or extent: a great big grin. 
• [attributive] used to express surprise, admiration, or contempt, especially in exclamations: you great oaf! 
• (also greater) [attributive] used in names of animals or plants that are larger than similar kinds, e.g., great auk, greater flamingo. 
• (Greater) [attributive] (of a city) including adjacent urban areas: Greater Cleveland.
2 of ability, quality, or eminence considerably above the normal or average: the great Italian conductor 
we obeyed our great men and leaders 
great art has the power to change lives. 
• (the Great) a title denoting the most important person of the name: Alexander the Great. 
• informal very good or satisfactory; excellent: this has been another great year 
what a great guy 
wouldn't it be great to have him back? 
[as exclamation] : “Great!” said Tom. 
• [predicative] informal (of a person) very skilled or capable in a particular area: a brilliant man, great at mathematics.
3 [attributive] denoting the element of something that is the most important or the most worthy of consideration: the great thing is the challenge. 
• used to indicate that someone or something particularly deserves a specified description: I was a great fan of Hank's.
4 [in combination] (in names of family relationships) denoting one degree further removed upward or downward: great-aunt 
great-granddaughter 
great-great-grandfather. 
▶noun
1 a great or distinguished person: the Beatles, Bob Dylan, all the greats. 
• (as plural noun the great) great people collectively: the lives of the great, including Churchill and Newton.
2 (Greats) British informal another term for Literae Humaniores. 
▶adverb informal excellently; very well: we played awful, they played great. 
PHRASES
great and small of all sizes, classes, or types: all creatures great and small. a great deal see deal1. a great many see many. a great one for a habitual doer of; an enthusiast for: my father was a great one for buying gadgets. Great Scott! expressing surprise or amazement. [arbitrary euphemism for Great God!] to a great extent in a substantial way; largely: we are all to a great extent the product of our culture.ORIGIN Old English grēat ‘big’; related to Dutch groot and German gross .
