grey 
BrE ɡreɪ, AmE ɡreɪ
BrE 
A.  adjective 
① (colour) 灰色的 huīsè de ‹coat, eyes, hair, sky›
② (of face) 苍白的 cāngbái de ‹face, complexion›
③ (with grey hair) 头发灰白的 tóufa huībái de to turn or go grey; 头发开始花白 
④ (dull) 昏暗的 hūn'àn de a cold, grey day 寒冷阴沉的一天 
⑤ figurative (dreary) 沉闷的 chénmèn de ‹existence, routine›
⑥ (nondescript) 毫无吸引力的 háo wú xīyǐnlì de grey, faceless men 毫无吸引力、缺乏个性的男人 
B.  noun 
① (colour) 灰色 huīsè to be dressed in grey 穿灰色衣服 the Greys Military 灰骑兵 ［英国第二骑兵团的别称］
② (horse) 灰马 huī mǎ 
C.  transitive verb 使…变灰白 shǐ… biànhuībái ‹hair›; 使…变苍白 shǐ… biàncāngbái ‹complexion›
D.  intransitive verb «hair» 变灰白 biànhuībái ; «complexion» 变苍白 biàncāngbái ; «person» 头发变灰白 tóufa biànhuībái ; «animal» 毛发变灰色 máofà biànhuīsè to be greying at the temples 两鬓斑白 the population is greying figurative 人口正在老龄化 PHRASAL VERB grey out transitive verb[grey out something, grey something out] 使…变灰隐去 shǐ… biànhuī yǐnqù ‹menu, option›
gray
1 
ɡrā 
(British grey) 
▶adjective
1 of a color intermediate between black and white, as of ashes or an overcast sky: gray flannel trousers. 
• (of a person) having gray hair: a gray, fatherly gentleman. 
• informal relating to old people, especially when seen as an oppressed group: gray power. 
• (of the weather) cloudy and dull; without sun: a cold, gray November day. 
• (of a person's face) pale, as through tiredness, age, or illness: a few people, their faces gray and bitter.
2 dull and nondescript; without interest or character: gray, faceless men 
the gray daily routine.
3 (of financial or trading activity) not accounted for in official statistics: the gray economy. 
▶noun
1 gray color or pigment: dirty intermediate tones of gray. 
• gray clothes or material: the gentleman in gray. 
• gray hair: he sighed at the amount of gray at his temple. 
• (usually Gray) the Confederate army in the Civil War, or a member of that army.
2 a gray thing or animal, in particular a gray or white horse. 
▶verb [no object] (especially of hair) become gray with age: he had put on weight and grayed somewhat 
(as adjective graying) : a man of about fifty with graying hair. 
• (of a person or group) become older; age: (as adjective graying) : a graying workforce. PHRASAL VERBS gray something out display a menu option in a light font to indicate that it is not available: all the property fields on the Shortcut tab are either missing or grayed out.DERIVATIVES grayish 
ˈɡrāiSH 
adjective. grayly adverb. grayness 
ˈɡrānəs 
nounORIGIN Old Englishgrǣg, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch grauw and German grau .
