grip 
BrE ɡrɪp, AmE ɡrɪp 

A.  noun 
① (hold) 抓牢 zhuāláo to lose one's grip 松手 to tighten one's grip on [something] 将某物抓得更紧 to relax one's grip on [something] 松手放开某物 to have a firm grip (on [something]) 牢牢地抓住（某物） to come or get to grips with [somebody]
[something] literal 开始与某人/某物搏斗 figurative (begin to deal with) 开始处理某人/某事 kāishǐ chǔlǐ mǒu rén/mǒu shì (begin to understand) 开始理解某人/某事 kāishǐ lǐjiě mǒu rén/mǒu shì 
② (manner of holding) 抓牢的方式 zhuāláo de fāngshì (in tennis) 握拍法 wòpāifǎ (in golf) 握杆法 wògānfǎ (in wrestling) 擒拿法 qínnáfǎ (power of holding) 握力 wòlì a weak or feeble grip 无力的一握 to hold [somebody]/[something] in a tight grip 紧紧抓住某人/某物 
③ (ability to hold) 抓力 zhuālì the tyres lost their grip 这些轮胎已经不防滑了 
④ figurative (control) 控制 kòngzhì to get or take a grip on or of oneself 控制住自己 to lose one's grip (become unable to understand) 无法认清自己的处境 (become unable to control) 无法掌控局面 I feel I'm losing my grip 我感到自己无能为力 he lay in the grip of despair 他绝望地躺着 
⑤ (handle) 柄 bǐng 
⑥ BrE (for hair) 发夹 fàjiā 
⑦ especially AmE (bag) 旅行袋 lǚxíngdài 
B.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -pp-) 
① (take or have firm hold) «person» 抓牢 zhuāláo ; «vice» 夹牢 jiāláo ; «animal» 咬住 yǎozhù to grip a handrail with both hands 用双手紧紧抓住扶手 to grip [something] between one's teeth 紧紧咬住某物 
② (adhere to) «tyres, brakes» 抓住 zhuāzhù ‹road, rails›
③ figurative (captivate) «film, story» 吸引住 xīyǐnzhù (have a strong or adverse effect on) 攫住 juézhù she was gripped by a feeling of excitement 她激动万分 the country was gripped by recession 该国陷入了经济衰退 
C.  intransitive verb (present participle etc. -pp-) «tyres, brakes, shoes» 抓地 zhuā de the tyres failed to grip on the ice 轮胎在冰上打滑了 
grip 
ɡrip

▶verb (grips, gripping, gripped) [with object]
1 take and keep a firm hold of; grasp tightly: his knuckles were white as he gripped the steering wheel. 
• [no object] maintain a firm contact, especially by friction: a sole that really grips well on wet rock.
2 (of a feeling or emotion) deeply affect (someone): she was gripped by a feeling of excitement. 
• compel the attention or interest of: she gripped us from the first sentence. 
▶noun
1 [in singular] a firm hold; a tight grasp or clasp: his arm was held in a vicelike grip 
figurative : the icy grip of winter. 
• a manner of grasping or holding something: I've changed my grip and my backswing. 
• the ability of something, especially a wheel or shoe, to maintain a firm contact with a surface: these shoes have got no grip. 
• [in singular] an effective form of control over something: our firm grip on inflation. 
• [in singular] an intellectual understanding of something: you've got a pretty good grip on what's going on.
2 a part or attachment by which something is held in the hand: handlebar grips.
3 a traveling bag: a grip crammed with new clothes.
4 an assistant in a theater; a stagehand. 
• a member of a camera crew responsible for moving and setting up equipment. 
PHRASES
come (or get) to grips with engage in combat with: they never came to grips with the enemy. 
• begin to deal with or understand: a real tough problem to come to grips with. get a grip [usually in imperative] informal keep or recover one's self-control: get a grip, guys! get a grip on take control of: the Fed will have to act to get a grip on inflation. in the grip of dominated or affected by something undesirable or adverse: people caught in the grip of a drug problem. lose one's grip become unable to understand or control one's situation: an elderly person who seems to be losing his grip.DERIVATIVES gripper 
ˈɡripər 
nounORIGIN Old English grippa (verb), gripe ‘grasp, clutch’ (noun), gripa ‘handful, sheath’; related to gripe .
