gross 
BrE ɡrəʊs, AmE ɡroʊs 

A.  adjective 
① (coarse) 粗俗的 cūsú de gross language 污言秽语 a gross eater 吃相不雅的人 
② (serious) 严重的 yánzhòng de ‹neglect, error, injustice, ignorance›; 粗略的 cūlüè de ‹generalization, simplification›gross inequality 极端的不平等 
③ Finance, Technology (before deductions) 总的 zǒng de the gross weight 毛重 
④ colloquial (disgusting) 令人厌恶的 lìng rén yànwù de that is just gross! 那真恶心 
⑤ colloquial (obese) 过度肥胖的 guòdù féipàng de 
B.  noun 
① (plural gross) (twelve dozen) 罗 luó [等于12打]
② (plural grosses) (profit) 毛利 máolì (income) 总收入 zǒngshōurù 
C.  transitive verb (make gross profit of) 获得…毛利 huòdé… máolì ; (have gross income of) 获得…总收入 huòdé… zǒngshōurù to gross two million dollars 总共赚得200万美元 PHRASAL VERBS gross out transitive verb[gross somebody out] especially AmE colloquial 使厌恶 shǐ yànwù to gross out one's parents 冒犯父母 gross up transitive verb[gross up something] 返计还原 fǎn jì huányuán [指使净收入等增长至税前毛额] ‹income, interest›
gross 
ɡrōs

▶adjective
1 (especially of wrongdoing) very obvious and unacceptable; blatant: gross human rights abuses 
gross negligence 
a gross exaggeration.
2 (of income, profit, or interest) without deduction of tax or other contributions; total: the gross amount of the gift was $1,000 
the current rate of interest is about 6.1 percent gross. Often contrasted with net2 ( sense
1 of the adjective). 
• (of weight) including all contents, fittings, wrappings, or other variable items; overall: a projected gross takeoff weight of 500,000 pounds. 
• (of a score in golf) as actually played, without taking handicap into account.
3 very rude or coarse; vulgar: the duties we felt called upon to perform toward our inferiors were only gross, material ones. 
• unattractively large or bloated: I feel fat, gross—even my legs feel flabby. 
• informal very unpleasant; repulsive: it's disgusting and gross, but it's a fact.
4 general or large-scale; not fine or detailed: at the gross anatomical level. 
▶adverb without tax or other contributions having been deducted. 
▶verb [with object] produce or earn (an amount of money) as gross profit or income: the film went on to gross $8 million in the 
U. 
S.  
▶noun
1 (plural same) an amount equal to twelve dozen; 144: fifty-five gross of tins of processed milk. [From French grosse douzaine, literally ‘large dozen.’]
2 (plural grosses) a gross profit or income: the box-office grosses mounted. 
PHRASES
by the gross in large numbers or amounts: impoverished Mexicans who were arrested here by the gross.PHRASAL VERBS gross someone out North American informal disgust someone, typically with repulsive or obscene behavior or appearance.DERIVATIVES grossness 
ˈɡrōsnəs 
nounORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘thick, massive, bulky’): from Old French gros, grosse ‘large,’ from late Latin grossus .
