guarantee 
BrE ɡar(ə)nˈtiː, AmE ˌɡɛrənˈti 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countableBusn (warranty, document) 保修单 bǎoxiūdān to be under guarantee BrE 在保修期内 without/with no guarantee; 无担保地 the watch comes with or carries or has three years guarantee 这块表保修期为3年 to be covered by (the manufacturer's) guarantee 在（生产商）保修范围内 a money-back guarantee 退货保证 there is a one year's guarantee on the vehicle 这辆汽车有一年的保修期 a certificate of guarantee 质保证书 a written guarantee or a guarantee in writing 书面保证 guarantee card/form 质保卡/表格 
② Countable(promise) 保证 bǎozhèng 
③ CountableLaw (undertaking) = guaranty 
④ Uncountable and countableLaw (person) = guarantor 
B.  transitive verb 
① (assure, make certain) 保证 bǎozhèng his presence guarantees that the event will be a success 他在场可保证此次活动成功举办 it's guaranteed to rain! 天准会下雨！ her new novel is a guaranteed best seller 她的新小说肯定畅销 there's no guaranteeing … 无法保证… 
② Busn 为…提供质量保证 wèi… tígōng zhìliàng bǎozhèng ‹product, service, transaction›to be guaranteed against rust 保证不生锈 to be guaranteed for
18 months 保质期18个月 to guarantee to refund [somebody's] money 保证退某人的款 to guarantee [something] to be genuine 保证某物为真品 
③ Law 为…提供担保 wèi… tígōng dānbǎo ‹debt, cheque, bill of exchange, person›to guarantee [somebody] for a loan 为某人贷款作担保 to guarantee [somebody's] good conduct or behaviour 保证某人行为规矩 
guarantee 
ˌɡerənˈtē

▶noun
1 a formal promise or assurance (typically in writing) that certain conditions will be fulfilled, especially that a product will be repaired or replaced if not of a specified quality and durability: we offer a 10-year guarantee against rusting. 
• something that gives a certainty of outcome: past performance is no guarantee of future results.
2 (also guaranty) Law a formal pledge to pay another person's debt or to perform another person's obligation in the case of default. 
• a thing serving as security for a formal pledge to pay another person's debt. 
• less common term for guarantor. 
▶verb (guarantees, guaranteeing, guaranteed) [no object] provide a formal assurance or promise, especially that certain conditions shall be fulfilled relating to a product, service, or transaction: [with clause or infinitive] : the con artist guarantees that the dirt pile will yield at least
20 ounces of gold. 
• [with object] provide a formal assurance regarding (something, especially a product): the repairs will be guaranteed for three years 
(as adjective guaranteed) : the guaranteed bonus is not very high. 
• [with object] provide financial security for; underwrite: a demand that $100,000 be deposited to guarantee their costs. 
• [with object] promise with certainty: no one can guarantee a profit on stocks. ORIGIN late 17th century (in the sense ‘guarantor’): perhaps from Spanish garante, corresponding to French garant (see warrant), later influenced by French garantie ‘guaranty.’
