guide 
BrE ɡʌɪd, AmE ɡaɪd 

A.  noun 
① (person leading climbers, explorers) 向导 xiàngdǎo ; (person leading tourists) 导游 dǎoyóu a tour guide 导游 dǎoyóu 
② (adviser) 指导者 zhǐdǎozhě a spiritual/moral guide 精神导师/道德指导者 let reason be your guide 做事要靠理智 
③ (indication) 指示 zhǐshì this figure is only meant to be a guide 这一数字只是起指导作用 to give [somebody] a guide as to [something] 给某人有关某事的指示 to treat [something] as a guide 以某事为指导 as a rough guide 大致上 to be no/little guide 没有/几乎没有指导意义 
④ (guidebook) 旅行指南 lǚxíng zhǐnán (reference book) 手册 shǒucè a guide to Greece 希腊旅行指南 a user's guide to [something] 某物的用户手册 a weekly TV guide 电视节目周报 
⑤ Guide; especially BrE (member of youth organization) 女童子军 nǚ tóngzǐjūn a Brownie/Ranger Guide 初级/高级女童子军 Queen's/King's Guide BrE 皇家女童子军 ［最高级别的女童子军］to be in the Guides 是女童子军成员 to join the Guides 参加女童子军 
⑥ Technology 导向装置 dǎoxiàng zhuāngzhì 
B.  transitive verb 
① (lead) 为…引路 wèi… yǐnlù ‹visitor, blind person›he guided her through the crowd/to the garden 他领着她穿过人群/走向花园 he guided the country through the war/to victory 他领导全国度过战争时期/走向胜利 he guided the conversation away from personal matters 他把话题从私事上扯开 
② (direct) 牵引 qiānyǐn ‹rope, cable, thread›; 驾驶 jiàshǐ ‹ship›
③ (influence) 指导 zhǐdǎo ‹person, behaviour, action›let your common sense guide you 依照常识行事吧 be guided by my advice 听我的建议吧 
④ Aerospace, Military 导引 dǎoyǐn ‹rocket, missile, spacecraft›
guide 
ɡīd

▶noun
1 a person who advises or shows the way to others: this lady is going to act as our guide for the rest of the tour. 
• a professional mountain climber in charge of a group.
2 a thing that helps someone to form an opinion or make a decision or calculation: here is a guide to the number of curtain hooks you will need. 
• a book, document, or display providing information on a subject or about a place: a guide to baby and toddler care.
3 a structure or marking that directs the motion or positioning of something: the guides for the bolt needed straightening.
4 a soldier, vehicle, or ship whose position determines the movements of others. 
▶verb
1 [with object] show or indicate the way to (someone): he guided her to the front row and sat beside her. 
• direct the motion or positioning of (something): the groove in the needle guides the thread.
2 [with object] direct or have an influence on the course of action of (someone or something): he guided the team to a second successive win in the tournament. DERIVATIVES guidable 
ˈɡīdəb(ə)l 
adjective. guider nounORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French guide (noun), guider (verb), of Germanic origin; related to wit2 .
