gun 
BrE ɡʌn, AmE ɡən 

A.  noun 
① (hand weapon) 枪 qiāng (artillery weapon) 炮 pào to fire a gun at [somebody] 向某人开火 to draw a gun on [somebody] 掏出枪对准某人 a 12-gun salute 12响礼炮 big gun figurative colloquial 大人物 top gun figurative colloquial 头号人物 to go great guns figurative colloquial 进展顺利 to stick to one's guns colloquial 坚持己见 to spike [somebody's] guns figurative colloquial 破坏某人的计划 under the gun figurative colloquial 在巨大压力下 
② Sport (starting pistol) 发令枪 fālìngqiāng (signal) 起跑信号 qǐpǎo xìnhào to jump the gun colloquial 过早行动 
③ (tool) 喷枪 pēnqiāng a paint/glue gun 油漆喷枪/热熔胶枪 
B.  transitive verb (present participle etc. -nn-) colloquial 加大…的油门 jiādà… de yóumén ‹engine, motor›
C.  intransitive verb to be gunning for [somebody] (attack) 伺机攻击某人 sìjī gōngjī mǒu rén (criticize) 伺机批评某人 sìjī pīpíng mǒu rén to be gunning for [something] 竭力谋求 jiélì móuqiú ‹job, prize›PHRASAL VERB gun down transitive verb[gun somebody down], [gun down somebody] (kill) 枪杀 qiāngshā ; (injure) 开枪打伤 kāiqiāng dǎshāng 
gun 
ɡən

▶noun
1 a weapon incorporating a metal tube from which bullets, shells, or other missiles are propelled by explosive force, typically making a characteristic loud, sharp noise. 
• a device for discharging something (e.g., insecticide, grease, or electrons) in a required direction. 
• a starting pistol used in track and field events. 
• the firing of a piece of artillery as a salute or signal: the boom of the one o'clock gun echoed across the river. 
• chiefly North American a gunman: a hired gun. 
• (guns) nautical slang, dated used as a nickname for a ship's gunnery officer.
2 (guns) informal muscular arms; well-developed biceps muscles: it's encouraging to note that Schwarzenegger wasn't born with massive guns. 
▶verb (guns, gunning, gunned) [with object]
1 (gun someone down) shoot someone with a gun: they were gunned down by masked snipers.
2 informal cause (an engine) to race: as Neil gunned the engine, the boat jumped forward. 
• accelerate (a vehicle): he gunned the car away from the curb. 
PHRASES
big gun 
ˈbiɡ ˌɡən 
informal an important or powerful person: the first baseman and the center fielder were the big guns of that team. go great guns informal proceed forcefully, vigorously, or successfully: the film industry has been going great guns recently. jump the gun informal act before the proper time. stick to one's guns informal refuse to compromise or change, despite criticism: we have stuck to our guns on that issue. top gun a (or the) most important person: the top guns in contention for the coveted post of chairman. under the gun North American informal under great pressure: manufacturers are under the gun to offer alternatives.PHRASAL VERBS gun for pursue or act against (someone) with hostility: the Republican candidate was gunning for his rival over campaign finances. 
• seek out or strive for (something) determinedly: he had been gunning for a place in the squad.DERIVATIVES gunless adjectiveORIGIN Middle English gunne, gonne, perhaps from a nickname for the Scandinavian name Gunnhildr, from gunnr + hildr, both meaning ‘war.’
