gut 
BrE ɡʌt, AmE ɡət 

A.  noun 
① guts plural colloquial (insides) 内脏 nèizàng to have a pain in one's guts colloquial 肚子疼 to hate [somebody's] guts figurative colloquial 对某人恨之入骨 to have [somebody's] guts for garters BrE humorous 严惩某人 to work or slog or flog or sweat one's guts out colloquial 拼命工作 to bust a gut figurative colloquial 竭尽全力 
② before noun (instinctive) 本能的 běnnéng de ‹reaction, response›a gut feeling 直觉 
③ guts plural (of machine) 内部结构 nèibù jiégòu (of speech) 要点 yàodiǎn 
④ guts plural colloquial (courage) 勇气 yǒngqì to have the guts to do [something]; 有胆量做某事 [somebody] with guts 有魄力的某人 to take (a lot of) guts to do [something]; 做某事需要（很大的）勇气 
⑤ Countable(intestine) 肠 cháng 
⑥ Countablecolloquial (abdomen) 肚子 dùzi a beer gut 啤酒肚 
⑦ guts plural + verb singular colloquial (greedy person) 贪心鬼 tānxīnguǐ 
⑧ Uncountable(thread) 肠线 chángxiàn 
B.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -tt-) 
① (remove intestines from) 取出…的内脏 qǔchū… de nèizàng to gut a fish 挖出鱼的内脏 
② (destroy) 彻底毁坏…的内部 chèdǐ huǐhuài… de nèibù the fire gutted the warehouse 大火把仓库烧得只剩下了骨架 
gut 
ɡət

▶noun
1 (also guts) the stomach or belly: a painful stabbing feeling in his gut. 
• Medicine & Biology the lower alimentary canal or a part of this; the intestine: microbes which naturally live in the human gut. 
• (guts) entrails that have been removed or exposed in violence or by a butcher. 
• (guts) the internal parts or essence of something: the guts of a modern computer.
2 (guts) informal personal courage and determination; toughness of character: she had both more brains and more guts than her husband 
you just haven't got the guts to admit it. 
• [often as modifier] informal used in reference to a feeling or reaction based on an instinctive emotional response rather than considered thought: I had a gut feeling that something was wrong 
trusting his gut instinct, he went ahead and made the call 
I could feel it in my guts—he was out there, watching me.
3 fiber made from the intestines of animals, used especially for violin or racket strings or for surgical use: [as modifier] : gut strings.
4 a narrow passage or strait. 
▶verb (guts, gutting, gutted) [with object]
1 take out the intestines and other internal organs of (a fish or other animal) before cooking it. 
• remove or destroy completely the internal parts of (a building or other structure): the fire gutted most of the factory.
2 British informal cause (someone) to feel extremely upset or disappointed: it guts me to think about what my mother and brother missed out on 
(as adjective gutting) : she described the ruling as absolutely gutting. 
PHRASES
bust a gut informal
1 make a strenuous effort: a problem which nobody is going to bust a gut trying to solve.
2 laugh very heartily: his facial expressions and ad libs were enough to get audiences to bust a gut. —— one's guts out used to indicate that the specified action is done or performed as hard as possible: he ran his guts out and finished fourth. hate someone's guts informal feel a strong hatred for someone.ORIGIN Old English guttas (plural), probably related to gēotan ‘pour.’
