handicap 
BrE ˈhandɪkap, AmE ˈhændiˌkæp 

A.  noun 
① dated or offensive (physical disability) 残障 cánzhàng (mental disability) 智障 zhìzhàng 
② (disadvantage) 障碍 zhàng'ài (to be) a handicap to [somebody]/[something] （是）对某人/某事物的障碍 
③ Sport (race) 让步赛 ràngbùsài 
④ Sport (penalty) [比赛中给较强选手设置的] 不利条件 bùlì tiáojiàn a time/weight handicap 让时间/让磅 
⑤ (in golf) 差点 chàdiǎn [指球手打球的平均杆数和标准杆数的差距]to have a handicap of three 差点为3 
B.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -pp-) 
① literal 使残废 shǐ cánfèi to be handicapped by injury 因伤致残 
② figurative 妨碍 fáng'ài to be handicapped by not being able to read 吃了不识字的亏 
handicap 
ˈhandēˌkap

▶noun
1 a circumstance that makes progress or success difficult: a criminal conviction is a handicap and a label that may stick forever.
2 often offensive a condition that markedly restricts a person's ability to function physically, mentally, or socially: he was born with a significant visual handicap.
3 a disadvantage imposed on a superior competitor in sports such as golf, horse racing, and competitive sailing in order to make the chances more equal. 
• a race or contest in which a disadvantage is imposed on a superior competitor: [in names] : the trophy for the $75,000 Ak-Sar-Ben Handicap. 
• the extra weight to be carried in a race by a racehorse on the basis of its previous performance to make its chances of winning the same as those of the other horses. 
• the number of strokes by which a golfer normally exceeds par for a course (used as a method of enabling players of unequal ability to compete with each other): [in combination] : his game struggles along in the 20-handicap range. 
▶verb (handicaps, handicapping, handicapped) [with object] act as an impediment to: lack of funding has handicapped the development of research. 
• place (someone) at a disadvantage: without a good set of notes you will handicap yourself when it comes to exams. ORIGIN mid 17th century: from the phrase hand in cap; originally a pastime in which one person claimed an article belonging to another and offered something in exchange, any difference in value being decided by an umpire. All three deposited forfeit money in a cap; the two opponents showed their agreement or disagreement with the valuation by bringing out their hands either full or empty. If both were the same, the umpire took the forfeit money; if not, it went to the person who accepted the valuation. The term handicap race was applied (late 18th century) to a horse race in which an umpire decided the weight to be carried by each horse, the owners showing acceptance or dissent in a similar way: hence in the late 19th century handicap came to mean the extra weight given to the superior horse. usage: See usage at handicapped .
