happen 
BrE ˈhap(ə)n, AmE ˈhæpən 
intransitive verb 
① (occur) 发生 fāshēng it had to or was bound to happen 这件事原本就是要发生的 whatever happens 无论发生什么事 success doesn't just happen! 成功不是偶然的！ a person who makes things happen 可以成事之人 these things happen colloquial 这种事在所难免 what's happening? slang 谁来了？ 
② (result) 产生结果 chǎnshēng jiéguǒ what happens if …? 如果…会怎样？ the reforms never happened 改革没有实行 
③ (chance) 碰巧 pèngqiǎo to happen to do [something]; 碰巧做某事 it happens that …; 碰巧… as it happens, I can speak French 我正好会说法语 
④ (used indignantly) [表示愤怒或异议]he just so happens to be the best … 他偏偏是最优秀的… sorry, but I happen to disagree 恕我不敢苟同 PHRASAL VERBS happen on transitive verb[happen on something] dated 偶然发现 ǒurán fāxiàn I happened on a restaurant 我碰巧来到一家餐馆 happen to transitive verb[happen to somebody/something] 
① (befall) 使遭遇 shǐ zāoyù death is something that happens to us all 我们每个人都会死的 
② (become of) 发生于 fāshēng yú what happened to all those promises? 那些承诺都怎么样了？ 
③ (come to harm) 伤害 shānghài I hope nothing happens to her 我希望她不要出什么事 happen upon transitive verb dated = happen on 
happen 
▶verb
1 remember what happened last time he was here: occur, take place, come about; ensue, result, transpire, materialize, arise, crop up, come up, present itself, supervene; informal go down; formal eventuate; literary come to pass, betide.
2 I wonder what happened to Joe? become of; literary befall, betide.
3 they happened to be in: chance, have the good/bad luck.
4 she happened on a blue jay's nest: discover, find, find by chance, come across, chance on, stumble on, hit on.CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD happen, befall, occur, transpire When things happen, they come to pass either for a reason or by chance (it happened the day after school started; she happened upon the scene of the accident), but the verb is more frequently associated with chance (it happened to be raining when we got there). Occur can also refer either to something that comes to pass either accidentally or as planned, but it should only be used interchangeably with happen when the subject is a definite or actual event (the tragedy occurred last winter). Unlike happen, occur also carries the implication of something that presents itself to sight or mind (it never occurred to me that he was lying). Transpire is a more formal (and some would say undesirable) word meaning to happen or occur, and it conveys the sense that something has leaked out or become known (he told her exactly what had transpired while she was away). While things that happen, occur, or transpire can be either positive or negative, when something befalls it is usually unpleasant (he had no inkling of the disaster that would befall him when he got home).These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
