hard 
BrE hɑːd, AmE hɑrd 

A.  adjective 
① (difficult) 困难的 kùnnan de ‹problem, choice›it's hard (for [somebody]) to do [something]; （某人）做某事很难 to find [something] hard to do 感到某事很难做 it's hard to believe that … 很难相信… a hard person to get on or along with 难于相处的人 to play hard to get colloquial 故意拿架子 
② (rigid) 坚硬的 jiānyìng de ‹substance, surface›hard muscles 结实的肌肉 to go or get or become or grow hard 变坚硬 as hard as iron or (a) rock or (a) stone 像钢铁/石头一样坚硬 → nut 
A. 
① 
③ (demanding) 辛苦的 xīnkǔ de ‹day›; 艰苦的 jiānkǔ de ‹life, childhood›to be hard to do [something]; 做某事很费劲 to be too much like hard work ironic 太费劲了 hard work never hurt or killed anybody 辛苦的工作有益无害 to be hard going «trip, task» 费力 «text» 难懂 nán dǒng 
④ (diligent) 辛勤的 xīnqín de ‹worker›he's a very hard worker (student) 他非常勤奋 (employee) 他工作很努力 tā gōngzuò hěn nǔlì 
⑤ (forceful) 用力的 yònglì de ‹blow, push›to take a hard fall 砰然落地 
⑥ (unpleasant) 艰难的 jiānnán de ‹year›to deal [somebody]/take a hard blow 给某人以/遭受沉重打击 life is hard colloquial ironic 生活很艰辛 it's a hard life being a millionaire ironic 做百万富翁不容易 it's a hard world 这是个残酷的世界 to fall on hard times 经历艰难时期 to give [somebody] a hard time colloquial 为难某人 to have a hard time (of it) 经历艰难困苦 to learn [something] or to find [something] out the hard way 通过吃苦头认识某事物 no hard feelings 不再怨恨 hard lines ! BrE colloquial (sympathetic) 真不幸！ (unsympathetic) 活该倒霉！ 
⑦ (jarring) 刺眼的 cìyǎn de ‹light, colour›; 刺耳的 cì'ěr de ‹sound›
⑧ (stark) 生硬的 shēngyìng de ‹outline›
⑨ (very cold) 严寒的 yánhán de a hard winter/frost 严冬/寒冷的霜冻 
⑩ (stern) 冷酷无情的 lěngkù wúqíng de ‹person, look›a hard heart 硬心肠 there were hard words between us 我们相互苛责 to be hard on [somebody]/[something] (harsh) 对某人/某事物苛刻 (unfair) 对某人/某事物不公平 (damaging) 伤害某人/损坏某物 to be hard on one's shoes/feet 穿鞋很费/挤脚 to be hard on the nerves 使人焦虑不安 
⑪ colloquial (tough) 强健的 qiángjiàn de ‹body›; 坚强的 jiānqiáng de ‹mind›you think you're really hard, don't you? 你以为你真的有种，是不是？ 
⑫ (reliable) 确凿的 quèzáo de ‹facts, evidence›; 确切的 quèqiè de ‹news›
⑬ (potent) 烈性的 lièxìng de ‹drink, liquor›
⑭ (explicit) 极度淫秽的 jídù yínhuì de ‹pornography›
⑮ Politics the hard left/right 极左派/极右派 jízuǒpài/jíyòupài 
⑯ Phonet 硬的 yìng de ‹sound›a hard consonant 硬辅音 
B.  adverb 
① (rigidly) 结实地 jiēshi de to set/freeze/bake hard 变结实/冻得结结实实/烤得硬邦邦的 
② (forcefully) 用力地 yònglì de ‹push›to slam the door hard 使劲关上门 to fall hard against or on [something] 重重地撞在某物上 
③ (diligently) 努力地 nǔlì de no matter how hard I tried, … 不管我多努力，… as hard as one can 竭尽全力 to work hard 辛勤工作 to be hard at work or colloquial at it 忙于干活 
④ (carefully) 仔细地 zǐxì de ‹think, look›
⑤ (heavily) 大量地 dàliàng de to rain/snow very hard 雨/雪下得很大 
⑥ (intensely) 剧烈地 jùliè de to laugh/cry hard 大笑/痛哭 
⑦ figurative (deeply) 严重地 yánzhòng de to hit [somebody]/[something] hard 给某人/某事以沉重打击 to be hard hit (by [something]) 受到（某事的）严重影响 
⑧ (sharply) 急剧地 jíjù de to turn hard to the right 向右急转 go hard astern! 全速倒退！ hard a-port/a-starboard 左/右满舵 
⑨ (with difficulty) 困难地 kùnnan de to be hard put (to it) to do [something] 做某事很难 
⑩ (badly) to take [something] hard 为某事难过 wèi mǒu shì nánguò 
⑪ (unfairly) hard done by 受到不公平待遇 shòudào bù gōngpíng dàiyù to look hard done by 看起来很委屈 kànqilai hěn wěiqu 
⑫ (close) hard behind 紧随在后 jǐn suí zài hòu hard on or upon [something] 紧随某事之后 jǐn suí mǒu shì zhīhòu hard by ([something]) dated 在（某物）近旁 zài(mǒu wù)jìnpáng 
hard 
härd

▶adjective
1 solid, firm, and resistant to pressure; not easily broken, bent, or pierced: a hard mattress 
ground frozen hard as a rock. 
• (of a person) not showing any signs of weakness; tough: the hard, tough, honest cop. 
• (of information) reliable, especially because based on something true or substantiated: hard facts about the underclass are maddeningly elusive. 
• (of a subject of study) dealing with precise and verifiable facts: efforts to turn psychology into hard science. 
• (of water) containing mineral salts that make lathering difficult. 
• (of prices of stock, commodities, etc.) stable or firm in value. 
• (of science fiction) scientifically accurate rather than purely fantastic or whimsical: a hard SF novel. 
• (of a consonant) pronounced as c in cat or g in go.
2 requiring a great deal of endurance or effort: stooping over all day was hard work. 
• putting a lot of energy into an activity: he'd been a hard worker all his life. 
• difficult to bear; causing suffering: times were hard at the end of the war 
he'd had a hard life. 
• difficult to understand or solve: this is a really hard question 
[with infinitive] : she found it hard to believe that he could be involved. 
• not showing sympathy or affection; strict: my father is no longer the hard man he once was. 
• (of a season or the weather) severe: it's been a long, hard winter. 
• harsh or unpleasant to the senses: the hard light of morning. 
• (of wine) harsh or sharp to the taste, especially because of tannin.
3 done with a great deal of force or strength: a hard blow to the head.
4 potent, powerful, or intense, in particular: 
• (of liquor) strongly alcoholic; denoting distilled spirits rather than beer or wine. 
• US (of apple cider) having alcoholic content from fermentation. 
• (of a drug) potent and addictive. 
• denoting an extreme or dogmatic faction within a political party: the hard left. 
• (of radiation) highly penetrating. 
• (of pornography) highly obscene and explicit. 
▶adverb
1 with a great deal of effort: they work hard at school. 
• with a great deal of force; violently: it was raining hard.
2 so as to be solid or firm: the mortar has set hard.
3 to the fullest extent possible: put the wheel hard over to starboard. 
PHRASES
be hard on
1 treat or criticize (someone) severely: you're being too hard on her.
2 be difficult for or unfair to: I think the war must have been hard on her.
3 be likely to hurt or damage: the monitor flickers, which is hard on the eyes. be hard put [usually with infinitive] find it very difficult: you'll be hard put to find a better compromise.give someone a hard time informal deliberately make a situation difficult for someone. go hard with dated turn out to (someone's) disadvantage: it would go hard with the poor. hard and fast 
ˌhärd ən ˈfast 
(of a rule or a distinction made) fixed and definitive: it is impossible to lay down any hard and fast rules. hard as nails see nail. hard at it informal busily working or occupied: they were hard at it with brooms and mops. hard by close to: he lived hard by the cathedral. hard done by British harshly or unfairly treated: she would be justified in feeling hard done by. hard feelings [usually with negative] feelings of resentment: there are no hard feelings, and we wish him well. hard going difficult to understand or enjoy: the studying is at times hard going. hard hit badly affected: hard hit by falling oil prices. a hard nut to crack see nut. hard of hearing 
ˌhärd əv ˈhiriNG 
not able to hear well. hard on (or upon) close to; following soon after: we followed hard on their tracks.hard up 
ˌhärd ˈəp 
informal short of money: I'm too hard up to buy fancy clothes. the hard way through suffering or learning from the unpleasant consequences of mistakes: his reputation was earned the hard way. play hard to get informal deliberately adopt an aloof or uninterested attitude, typically in order to make oneself more attractive or interesting.DERIVATIVES hardish adjectiveORIGIN Old English hard, heard, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch hard and German hart .
