harm 
BrE hɑːm, AmE hɑrm 

A.  noun Uncountable损害 sǔnhài to do or cause harm 伤害 shānghài to come to harm; 受损害 to do harm to [somebody]/[something], to do [somebody]/[something] harm; 对某人/某事物有害 to mean harm to [somebody], to mean [somebody] harm; 有意伤害某人 I didn't mean him any harm 我对他并无恶意 there is no harm in doing that; 做那事没什么坏处 it would do no harm to do [something] (there's nothing to lose) 不妨做某事 (it would be a good idea) 做某事也不错 some hard work wouldn't do him any harm ironic 他干点儿重活不会累坏的 out of harm's way 在安全的地方 to do more harm than good 害多益少 where's the harm in it? 这有什么坏处？ no harm done! 没事！ 
B.  transitive verb 
① (injure) 伤害 shānghài ‹person›; 损坏 sǔnhuài ‹object›; 危害 wēihài ‹crop›he wouldn't harm a fly! 他连只苍蝇都不会伤害！ 
② (affect adversely) 损害 sǔnhài ‹reputation, economy›
harm 
härm

▶noun physical injury, especially that which is deliberately inflicted: it's fine as long as no one is inflicting harm on anyone else. 
• material damage: it's unlikely to do much harm to the engine. 
• actual or potential ill effect or danger: I can't see any harm in it. 
▶verb [with object] physically injure: the villains didn't harm him. 
• damage the health of: smoking when pregnant can harm your baby. 
• have an adverse effect on: this could harm his Olympic prospects. 
PHRASES
come to no harm be unhurt or undamaged. do more harm than good inadvertently make a situation worse rather than better. do (someone) no harm used to indicate that a situation or action will not hurt someone, whether or not it will provide any benefit: the diet of milk and zwieback certainly did him no harm. mean no harm not intend to cause damage or insult: this was cruel, but they meant no harm by it. no harm done used to reassure someone that what they have done has caused no real damage. no harm, no foul chiefly US used to indicate that a mistake or instance of misconduct should be excused because it has not caused damage: strictly speaking it was petty trespassing, but no harm, no foul. [originally in the context of sports: compare foul ( sense
1 of the noun) .] out of harm's way in a safe place.ORIGIN Old English hearm (noun), hearmian (verb), of Germanic origin; related to German Harm and Old Norse harmr ‘grief, sorrow.’
