heaven 
BrE ˈhɛv(ə)n, AmE ˈhɛvən 
noun 
① Uncountable( also Heaven) (place) 天堂 tiāntáng heaven and earth 天与地 to move heaven and earth to do [something] figurative 竭尽全力做某事 the kingdom of heaven 天国 heavens (above)! dated 天啊！ ［表示惊恐］good heavens! dated 天哪！ ［表示惊讶］
② Uncountable(God) 上帝 Shàngdì (the gods) 众天神 zhòng tiānshén the will of heaven 天意 for heaven's sake 看在上帝的份上 for heaven's sake, don't let on that you know 看在老天爷面上，别跟人家说你知道 heaven forbid! 但愿不要这样！ heaven forbid she should realize! 但愿她不会意识到！ heaven (only) knows! 天晓得！ heaven knows he's got plenty of money 他确实有很多钱 what in heaven's name are you up to? colloquial 你究竟想干什么？ 
③ Countable and uncountablecolloquial (state of bliss) 极乐 jílè (place where one is happy) 乐土 lètǔ (a) heaven on earth 人间天堂 that dress is sheer heaven! 那条裙子漂亮极了！ to be in seventh heaven 高兴极了 
④ literary (sky) the heavens 天空 tiānkōng the heavens opened 下了一场倾盆大雨 xiàle yī chǎng qīngpén dàyǔ 
heaven 
▶noun
1 the good will have a place in heaven: paradise, nirvana, Zion; the hereafter, the next world, the next life, Elysium, the Elysian Fields, Valhalla; literary the empyrean. ANTONYMS hell, purgatory.
2 a good book is my idea of heaven: bliss, ecstasy, rapture, contentment, happiness, delight, joy, seventh heaven; paradise, Utopia, nirvana. ANTONYMS misery.
3 (the heavens) he observed the heavens: the sky, the skies, the upper atmosphere, the stratosphere, space; literary the firmament, the vault of heaven, the blue, the (wild/wide) blue yonder, the welkin, the empyrean, the azure, the upper regions, the sphere, the celestial sphere.
PHRASES
in seventh heaven we're all in seventh heaven with this new swimming pool: ecstatic, euphoric, thrilled, elated, delighted, overjoyed, on cloud nine, walking on air, jubilant, rapturous, jumping for joy, transported, delirious, blissful; informal over the moon, on top of the world, on a high, tickled pink, as happy as a clam. move heaven and earth I'm going to get this promotion, even if I have to move heaven and earth to do it: try one's hardest, do one's best, do one's utmost, do all one can, give one's all, spare no effort, put oneself out; strive, exert oneself, work hard; informal bend over backwards, do one's damnedest, pull out all the stops, go all out, bust a gut. 
WORD LINKS
heaven celestial relating to heavenWord Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.
