heel
1 
BrE hiːl, AmE hil 

A.  noun 
① (of foot) 脚后跟 jiǎohòugen to turn or spin or swing round on one's heel 突然转身 at the heels of [somebody] 紧随某人 (close or hard or hot) on the heels of [somebody]/[something] (in pursuit) 紧追在某人/某物后面 (soon after) 紧接着某人/某事物 on the heels of their defeat came more troubles 他们失败后更多的麻烦接踵而来 to take to one's heels 拔腿逃走 to show ([somebody]) a clean pair of heels 溜之大吉 to bring a dog to heel 让狗跟着 to bring [somebody] to heel figurative 迫使…就范 ‹rebel› 让…听话 ràng… tīnghuà ‹child›to come to heel literal «dog» 跟着 gēnzhe figurative 就范 jiùfàn to cool or BrE kick one's heels 空等 to dig in one's heels or dig one's heels in (over [something]) （在某事上）固执己见 to fall or go head over heels literal 头朝下跌倒 to be/fall head over heels in love with [somebody] 爱某人爱得神魂颠倒/神魂颠倒地爱上某人 to kick up one's heels especially AmE colloquial 放松享乐 
② (of shoe) 鞋跟 xiégēn shoes with a low/high heel 低跟/高跟鞋 to click one's heels Military 立正 
③ (of sock) 后跟 hòugēn 
④ Anatomy (of hand) 手掌根 shǒuzhǎnggēn 
⑤ Culinary (of loaf) 面包头 miànbāotóu 
⑥ Botany (of plant) 踵 zhǒng 
⑦ figurative literary (power) 统治 tǒngzhì under the heel of [somebody]; 在某人的统治下 the iron heel of oppression 压迫的铁蹄 
⑧ colloquial dated (unpleasant or untrustworthy person) 浑蛋 húndàn 
B.  heels noun plural 高跟鞋 gāogēnxié 
C.  exclamation 跟着 gēnzhe [唤狗用语]heel, boy! 小家伙，跟着！ 
D.  transitive verb 
① (repair) 给…装鞋跟 gěi… zhuāng xiégēn ‹shoe›
② Sport 用脚跟向后传 yòng jiǎogēn xiàng hòu chuán ‹ball›PHRASAL VERB heel in transitive verb[heel something in, heel in something] 埋植 máizhí ‹plant›
heel
1 
hēl

▶noun
1 the back part of the foot below the ankle. 
• a corresponding part of the foot in vertebrate animals. 
• the part of the palm of the hand next to the wrist: he rubbed the heel of his hand against the window. 
• the part of a shoe or boot supporting the heel: shoes with low heels. 
• the part of a sock covering the heel. 
• (heels) high-heeled shoes.
2 a thing resembling a heel in form or position, in particular: 
• the end of a violin bow at which it is held. 
• the part of the head of a golf club nearest the shaft. 
• a crusty end of a loaf of bread, or the rind of a cheese. 
• a piece of the main stem of a plant left attached to the base of a cutting.
3 informal, dated an inconsiderate or untrustworthy person: what kind of a heel do you think I am? 
• (in professional wrestling) a wrestler who adopts a mean or unsympathetic persona in the ring: he played the perfect wrestling heel, arrogant, overly aggressive, yet the first to run away when the odds are not in his favor.
4 [as exclamation] a command to a dog to walk close behind its owner. 
▶verb [with object]
1 fit or renew a heel on (a shoe or boot).
2 (of a dog) follow closely behind its owner: these dogs are born with the instinctive urge to heel.
3 [no object] touch the ground with the heel when dancing.
4 Golf strike (the ball) with the heel of the club. 
PHRASES
at (or to) heel (of a dog) close to and slightly behind its owner. at the heels of (or at someone's heels) following closely behind: he headed off with Sammy at his heels. bring someone to heel bring someone under control. kick up one's heels North American have a lively, enjoyable time. on the heels of following closely after: September frosts would be on the heels of the dog days of August. set someone back on their heels astonish or discomfit someone. turn on one's heel turn sharply around. under the heel of dominated or controlled by: the Greeks spent several centuries under the heel of the Ottoman Empire.DERIVATIVES heeled 
hēld 
adjective [in combination] : high-heeled shoes. heelless 
ˈhēlləs 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English hēla, hǣla, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch hiel .
