hell 
BrE hɛl, AmE hɛl 
noun 
① Countable( also Hell) Religion 地狱 dìyù to be in hell 身处地狱 go to hell!, to hell with you! slang 见鬼去吧！ hell's bells or teeth! BrE slang 真见鬼！ (oh) hell! slang 哦，见鬼！ I'll see him in hell first 我再也不要见到他 there's not a hope in hell (of doing [something]) colloquial 毫无希望（做某事） to raise (merry) hell (with [somebody]) colloquial （与某人）大闹起来 to play (merry) hell with [somebody]/[something] BrE colloquial 给某人/某事物造成大麻烦 until or till/when hell freezes (over) colloquial 永不 all hell broke or was let loose colloquial 突然一片混乱 come hell or high water 无论有什么困难 there will be hell to pay colloquial 要有大麻烦了 (just) for the hell of it colloquial 只是闹着玩 to give [somebody] hell colloquial (scold) 大声责骂某人 (cause trouble for) 给某人惹麻烦 to beat the hell out of [somebody]/[something] colloquial 痛打某人/某物 to scare/annoy the hell out of [somebody] colloquial 把某人吓得半死/烦得要死 the neighbour/holiday from hell colloquial 恶邻/最糟糕的假期 to be hell on the knees/the car's suspension colloquial 对膝盖/车子的悬架有害 to catch hell AmE colloquial 受责备 not to have or stand a snowball's chance in hell (of doing [something]) colloquial 决不可能（做某事） → cat 
① 
② Uncountable(bad experience) 磨难 mónàn how was the trip? — sheer hell! 旅行如何？──糟糕透了！ to have been to hell and back colloquial 经历了一番磨难 to make [somebody's] life hell, to make life hell for [somebody] 使某人的生活苦不堪言 to go through hell doing [something] 做某事历尽磨难 
③ Uncountablecolloquial (as intensifier) as/like hell 非常 fēicháng run like hell! 快跑！ kuài páo ！ to hurt like hell 疼得要命 téng de yàomìng it sure as hell wasn't me 那肯定不是我 nà kěndìng bùshi wǒ like hell I will/you are! 我才不愿意/你才不是！ wǒ cái bù yuànyì/nǐ cái bùshi ！ a or one hell of a [somebody]/[something]; 极其的某人/某事物 jíqí de mǒu rén/mǒu shìwù a hell of a cold day 特冷的一天 tè lěng de yī tiān a hell of a guy 一个不错的家伙 yī gè bùcuò de jiāhuo to be a hell of a lot worse 更糟糕 gèng zāogāo I got a hell of a shock 我吓了一大跳 wǒ xiàle yī dà tiào to have one hell of a time (doing [something]) (good) （做某事）很愉快 (zuò mǒu shì)hěn yúkuài (bad) （做某事）很痛苦 (zuò mǒu shì)hěn tòngkǔ (difficult) （做某事）很困难 (zuò mǒu shì)hěn kùnnan what the hell! (in surprise) 哎呀！ āiyā ！ (in dismissal) 管它呢！ guǎn tā ne ！ to get the hellout (of [something]) 赶紧离开（某地） gǎnjǐn líkāi(mǒu dì) 
hell 
hel

▶noun a place regarded in various religions as a spiritual realm of evil and suffering, often traditionally depicted as a place of perpetual fire beneath the earth where the wicked are punished after death. 
• a state or place of great suffering; an unbearable experience: I've been through hell 
he made her life hell. 
▶exclam. used to express annoyance or surprise or for emphasis: oh, hell—where will this all end? 
hell, no, we were all married. 
• (the hell) informal expressing anger, contempt, or disbelief: who the hell are you? 
the hell you are! 
PHRASES
all hell broke loose informal suddenly there was pandemonium. (as) —— as hell informal used for emphasis: he's as guilty as hell. be hell on informal be very unpleasant or harmful to: summer can be hell on a man's skin. catch (or get) hell informal be severely reprimanded: Paul kept his mouth shut and looked apologetic—we got hell. come hell or high water whatever difficulties may occur. for the hell of it informal just for fun: she walked on window ledges for the hell of it. —— from hell informal an extremely unpleasant or troublesome instance or example of something: I've got a hangover from hell. get the hell out (of) informal escape quickly from (a place or situation): let's all get the hell out of here. give someone hell informal severely reprimand or make things very unpleasant for someone. go to hell informal used to express angry rejection of someone or something. go to (or through) hell and back endure an extremely unpleasant or difficult experience. hell for leather as fast as possible. hell's bells informal an exclamation of annoyance or anger. hell hath no fury like a woman scorned proverb a woman who has been rejected by a man can be ferociously angry and vindictive. a (or one) hell of a —— informal used to emphasize something very bad or great: it cost us a hell of a lot of money. hell's half acre North American a great distance. hell on wheels a disastrous situation. like hell informal
1 very fast, much, hard, etc. (used for emphasis): it hurts like hell.
2 used in ironic expressions of scorn or disagreement: like hell, he thought. not a hope in hell see hope. play hell informal make a fuss; create havoc. 
• cause damage: the rough road played hell with the tires. the road to hell is paved with good intentions proverb promises and plans must be put into action, or else they are useless. there will be hell to pay informal serious trouble will occur as a result of a previous action. to hell used for emphasis: damn it to hell. to hell with informal expressing one's scorn or lack of concern for (someone or something): to hell with the consequences. until (or till) hell freezes over for an extremely long time or forever. what the hell informal
1 it doesn't matter: what the hell, business is business after all.
2 used to express anger, contempt, or disbelief: What the hell, Jane? You're hanging me out to dry?DERIVATIVES hellward 
-wərd 
adverb & adjectiveORIGIN Old English hel, hell, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch hel and German Hölle, from an Indo-European root meaning ‘to cover or hide.’
