here 
BrE hɪə, AmE hɪr 

A.  adverb 
① (at or in this place) 在这里 zài zhèlǐ we're over here 我们在这里 in/up here 在这里面/上面 down here in the valley 在这下面的山谷里 around or round or about BrE here 这附近 here and there 到处 there's been some criticism here and there 各方提出了一些批评 here, there, and everywhere 四处 here today and gone tomorrow (soon over or forgotten) 稍纵即逝 (short-lived) 短暂的 with acting, you're here today and gone tomorrow 做演员往往让人昙花一现 here's to [somebody]/[something]! 为某人/某事干杯！ here we go colloquial 开始了 here we go (again) colloquial 又来了 ［尤指坏事］here's hoping 我希望 neither here nor there 无关紧要 here lies … (on tombstone) 这里安葬的是… 
② (to this place) 到这里 dào zhèlǐ come over here 过来吧 can you bring it here? 你把它带过来好吗？ 
③ (identifying person or thing close by) [指近处的人或物](in piece of writing) 这里 zhèlǐ ask this lady here 问一问这位女士吧 this paragraph here needs to be deleted 这一段得删除 this here contraption colloquial 这个奇怪的玩意儿 it says here that he was hanged 这里写道，他被绞死了 here below 下文 
④ (indicating a person's role in a situation) [表示某人的作用]here to do [something]; 来做某事 I'm here to help you 我是来帮助你的 
⑤ (on telephone) [电话用语]hello, it's Anne here 喂，我是安妮 
⑥ (in roll-call) 到 dào Matthew Brown? — here! 马休布朗？──到！ 
⑦ (indicating arrival) 来了 láile here's my brother 我弟弟来了 here we are at last 我们终于到了 here comes the bus 公共汽车开过来了 
⑧ (when introducing sth.) [用以进行介绍]here is the news 下面播送新闻 here's a dish that's easy to make 这是一道简单易做的菜 here's why 这就是原因 here goes colloquial 看我的 
⑨ (when giving sth.) [给东西时说]here are your tickets 这是你的票 where's the knife? — here it is 刀子在哪里？──给 here we or you are! a nice hot cup of tea for you 给！为你沏的一杯热茶 here you go! colloquial 给！ 
⑩ (on this topic) 在这一点上 zài zhè yīdiǎn shang here I disagree with you 在这一点上，我和你看法不同 
⑪ (now) 此时 cǐshí the countdown to Christmas starts here 现在开始圣诞节倒计时 here's our chance to escape 我们逃跑的机会来了 
B.  exclamation 
① BrE (attracting attention) 喂 wèi here, hang on a minute! 喂，等一下！ 
② (said when offering sth.) [表示主动提议]here, take this one 来，拿着这一个 
here 
hir

▶adverb
1 in, at, or to this place or position: they have lived here most of their lives 
come here and let me look at them 
[after preposition] : I'm getting out of here 
it's too hot in here. 
• used when pointing or gesturing to indicate the place in mind: sign here 
I have here a letter from the chief of police. 
• used to draw attention to someone or something that has just arrived: here's my brother 
here comes the bus. 
• [with infinitive] used to indicate one's role in a particular situation: I'm here to help you 
we're not here to mess around. 
• used to refer to existence in the world in general: what are we all doing here?
2 (usually here is/are) used when introducing something or someone: here's a dish that is simple and quick to make 
here's what you have to do. 
• used when giving something to someone: here's the money I promised you 
here is my address.
3 used when indicating a time, point, or situation that has arrived or is happening: here is your opportunity 
here comes summer 
here we encounter the main problem. 
▶exclam.
1 used to attract someone's attention: here, let me hold it.
2 indicating one's presence in a roll call. 
PHRASES
here and now at this very moment; at the present time: we're going to settle this here and now 
[as noun] : our obsession with the here and now. here and there in various places: small bushes scattered here and there. here goes an expression indicating that one is about to start something difficult or exciting. here's to someone/something used to wish health or success before drinking: here's to us! 
here's to your safe arrival. here today, gone tomorrow soon over or forgotten; short-lived. here we are said on arrival at one's destination. here we go again said to indicate that the same events, typically undesirable ones, are recurring. neither here nor there of no importance or relevance.ORIGIN Old English hēr, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch and German hier, also to he .
