hide
1 
BrE hʌɪd, AmE haɪd 

A.  transitive verb(past tense hid, past participle hidden) 
① (conceal) 把…藏起来 bǎ… cáng qilai ‹money, book, person›to hide one's blushes 不让别人看见自己脸红 to hide one's anger 掩饰愤怒 a hidden meaning 言外之意 to hide one's light under a bushel proverb 不露锋芒 
② (keep secret) 掩盖 yǎngài to hide a fact from [somebody] 对某人隐瞒事实 to have nothing to hide 没什么可隐瞒的 
③ (obscure from view) 遮掩 zhēyǎn the house was hidden by the trees 房子被树丛遮住了 the future is hidden from us 对我们来说，未来难以预料 
④ (cover) 遮盖 zhēgài she hid her face in his shoulder 她把脸埋在他的肩膀上 
B.  intransitive verb (past tense hid, past participle hidden) (conceal oneself) 躲藏 duǒcáng ; humorous «thing» 隐藏 yǐncáng a place to hide 藏身之处 to hide behind [somebody]/[something] literal, figurative 藏在某人/某物后面 to hide from the police 躲开警察 where are my keys hiding? 我的钥匙放到哪里去了？ 
C.  noun BrE 藏身处 cángshēnchù PHRASAL VERBS hide away 
A.  transitive verb[hide something away], [hide away something] 把…藏起来 bǎ… cáng qilai 
B.  intransitive verb 躲藏 duǒcáng hide out BrE, hide up AmE intransitive verb 躲藏起来 duǒcáng qilai where have you been hiding out since April? humorous 从4月以来你藏哪儿去了？ 
hide
1 
hīd

▶verb (past hid 
hid
; past participle hidden 
ˈhidn
) [with object] put or keep out of sight; conceal from the view or notice of others: he hid the money in the house 
the sacred relic had been hidden away in a sealed cavern. 
• (of a thing) prevent (someone or something) from being seen: clouds hid the moon. 
• keep secret or unknown: Hal could hardly hide his dislike. 
• [no object] conceal oneself: Juliet's first instinct was to hide under the blankets 
he had a little money and could hide out until the end of the month. 
• [no object] (hide behind) use (someone or something) to protect oneself from criticism or punishment, especially in a way considered cowardly or unethical: companies and manufacturers with poor security can hide behind the law. 
▶noun British a camouflaged shelter used to get a close view of wildlife. 
PHRASES
hide one's head cover up one's face or keep out of sight, especially from shame. hide one's light under a bushel keep quiet about one's talents or accomplishments. [with biblical allusion to Matt. 5:15.]DERIVATIVES hider 
ˈhīdər 
nounORIGIN Old English hȳdan.
