high 
BrE hʌɪ, AmE haɪ 

A.  adjective 
① (tall) 高的 gāo de the highest mountain in the world 世界上最高的山 a shoe with a high heel 高跟鞋 gāogēnxié how high is it? 它有多高？ to be
10 feet high 高10英尺 a 3-metre-high wall 3米高的墙 
② (far from bottom) 在高处的 zài gāochù de a room with a high ceiling 天花板很高的房间 a jumper with a high neck 高领针织衫 to fly at a high altitude 在高空飞行 a high plateau 高原 how high (up) are we? 我们距地面有多高？ an 8-foot-high ceiling 8英尺高的天花板 
③ (above usual level) 上涨的 shàngzhǎng de ‹sea, tide›the river is high today 今天河水上涨了 
④ (at or near top of scale) 居高的 jūgāo de a high price/speed/temperature 高价/高速/高温 a high standard 高水平 gāo shuǐpíng 
⑤ (great) 高度的 gāodù de ‹praise›a state of high anxiety 极度焦虑的状态 a moment of high drama 极具戏剧性的时刻 to be at high risk of heart disease 极易罹患心脏病 it's high time (that) … colloquial 是（…的）时候了 it's high time she faced facts 她该面对事实了 
⑥ Auto (gear) 高速的 gāosù de in high gear 以高速挡 
⑦ Games 点数大的 diǎnshù dà de a high card 大牌 
⑧ (plentiful) 含量高的 hánliàng gāo de to have a high iron content 富含铁 foods high in fat 高脂肪食物 
⑨ usually attributive (noble) 崇高的 chónggāo de ‹ideals, principles›
⑩ usually attributive (favourable) 十分赞许的 shífēn zànxǔ de to have a high opinion of [somebody]/[something] 对某人/某事物评价很高 to be held in (very) high regard by [somebody] （很）受某人的敬重 
⑪ usually attributive (in rank, status) 高层的 gāocéng de the highest authority 最高当局 a higher court 上级法院 to hold high office 担任要职 to be high up (in [something]) （在某组织中）地位很高 in high places figurative 身居高位 corruption in high places 高层腐败 to have friends in high places 认识有权有势的人 to go on to higher things figurative colloquial 升到更高的职位 
⑫ attributive (advanced) 高级的 gāojí de the higher plants/animals 高等植物/动物 to study for a higher degree 攻读更高的学位 
⑬ attributive (strong) 强劲的 qiángjìng de ‹wind›
⑭ (at peak) 全盛的 quánshèng de ‹period›in high summer 在盛夏 high Gothic 哥特风格的鼎盛时期 
⑮ (flushed) to have a high colour 脸色红润 liǎnsè hóngrùn 
⑯ Geography at high latitudes 高纬度 gāo wěidù 
⑰ (in pitch) 高音的 gāoyīn de the high notes 高音符 to speak in a high voice 尖声讲话 
⑱ predicative (mature) 开始变质的 kāishǐ biànzhì de ‹cheese, meat›the fish smells rather high colloquial euphemistic 这鱼闻起来很不新鲜 
⑲ predicative colloquial (euphoric) 非常高兴的 fēicháng gāoxìng de (on drug) 表现兴奋的 biǎoxiàn xīngfèn de to be/get high on heroin 因吸食海洛因而神志恍惚 to be high on success 因获胜而兴高采烈 
⑳ Linguistics 舌位高的 shéwèi gāo de a high vowel 高元音 
B.  adverb 
① (to great height) 高高地 gāogāo de to build the wall high 把墙筑高 to be piled high «papers» 堆得高高的 
② (toward great height) 向高处 xiàng gāochù (at great height) 在高处 zài gāochù to climb higher and higher 越爬越高 to write the address higher up 把地址写高一点 to fly high literal 在高空飞行 figurative 洋洋自得 yángyáng zìdé to run high «river» 上涨 «emotions, tempers» 激昂 jī'áng to hold one's head (up) high literal 昂首 figurative 感到骄傲 gǎndào jiāo'ào to search high and low figurative 到处找 
③ (in cost, amount) to be/go as high as … «inflation» 高达… gāo dá… to creep higher «prices» 逐步攀升 zhúbù pānshēng 
④ (to high level) to turn [something] up high 把…调高 ‹volume› 把…的音量调高 bǎ… de yīnliàng tiáogāo ‹radio, TV› 把…开大 bǎ… kāidà ‹gas, heating›
⑤ (in importance) 处于高层 chǔyú gāocéng to take [something] higher 把…呈交上级处理 ‹case, appeal›to get high up in the company 在公司里担任要职 
⑥ (at high pitch) 音调高地 yīndiào gāo de I can't sing that high 我唱不了那么高 
C.  noun 
① (high level) 高水平 gāo shuǐpíng an all-time or a record high 历史最高水平 to rise to or hit or reach a new high 创下新高 
② Meteorology (pressure system) 高气压区 gāoqìyāqū (temperature) 最高气温 zuì gāo qìwēn 
③ colloquial (euphoria) 兴奋感 xīngfèngǎn to give [somebody] a high «drug» 给某人带来快感 «success, compliment» 让某人十分开心 ràng mǒu rén shífēn kāixīn to be on a high; (drug-induced) 正经历快感 (happy) 处于兴奋状态 
④ AmE School colloquial = high school 
① 
D.  on high adverb phrase 
① literary (in high place) 在高处 zài gāochù from on high 从高处 the stars on high 高空的星星 
② Religion literary 在天上 zài tiānshàng from on high 来自上天的 the order came down from on high humorous 指示是上头下达的 
high 
hī

▶adjective
1 of great vertical extent: the top of a high mountain 
the mast was higher than the tallest building in the city. 
• (after a measurement and in questions) measuring a specified distance from top to bottom: a tree forty feet high 
how high is the fence? 
• far above ground, sea level, or another point of reference: a fortress high up on a hill. 
• extending above the normal or average level: a round face with a high forehead. 
• [attributive] (of territory or landscape) inland and well above sea level: high prairies. 
• near to the top of a real or notional list in order of rank or importance: financial security is high on your list of priorities. 
• [attributive] performed at, to, or from a considerable height: high diving. 
• Baseball (of a pitched ball) above a certain level, such as the batter's armpits, as it crosses home plate, and thus outside the strike zone.
2 great, or greater than normal, in quantity, size, or intensity: a high temperature 
fudge is high in calories. 
• of large numerical or monetary value: they had been playing for high stakes. 
• very favorable: nature had provided him with an admirably high opinion of himself. 
• extreme in religious or political views: the high Christology of the Christian creeds. 
• (of a period or movement) at its peak: high summer. 
• (of latitude) close to 90°; near the North or South Pole: high southern latitudes.
3 great in rank or status: he held high office in professional organizations. 
• ranking above others of the same kind: they announced the High Commissioner's retirement. 
• morally or culturally superior: they believed that nature was driven by something higher than mere selfishness.
4 (of a sound or note) having a frequency at the upper end of the auditory range: a high, squeaky voice. 
• (of a singer or instrument) producing notes of relatively high pitch: a high soprano voice.
5 [predicative] informal excited; euphoric: he was high on an idea. 
• intoxicated with drugs: some of them were already high on alcohol and Ecstasy.
6 [predicative] unpleasantly strong-smelling, in particular (of food) beginning to go bad. 
• (of game) slightly decomposed and so ready to cook.
7 Phonetics (of a vowel) produced with the tongue relatively near the palate. 
▶noun
1 a high point, level, or figure: commodity prices were at a rare high. 
• a notably happy or successful moment: the highs and lows of life. 
• a high-frequency sound or musical note. 
• an area of high atmospheric pressure; an anticyclone.
2 [usually in singular] informal a state of high spirits or euphoria: the highs I got from cocaine always ended in despair 
the team is still on a high from Saturday's victory.
3 informal, chiefly North American high school (chiefly used in names): I enjoyed my years at McKinley High.
4 a high power setting: the vent blower was on high. 
• top gear in a motor vehicle. 
▶adverb
1 at or to a considerable or specified height: the sculpture stood about five feet high.
2 highly: he ranked high among the pioneers of twentieth-century chemical technology. 
• at a high price: buying shares low and selling them high.
3 (of a sound) at or to a high pitch. 
PHRASES
ace (or king or queen, etc.) high (in card games) having the ace (or another specified card) as the highest-ranking. from on high from a very high place. 
• from remote high authority or heaven: government programs coming down from on high. high and dry out of the water, especially the sea as it retreats: when the tide goes out, a lot of boats are left high and dry. 
• in a difficult position, especially without resources: when the plant shut down, hundreds of workers found themselves high and dry. high and low in many different places: we searched high and low for a new teacher. high and mighty 
ˈhī ən ˈmīdē 
informal thinking or acting as though one is more important than others. a high old time informal a most enjoyable time: they had a high old time at the clambake. high, wide, and handsome informal expansive and impressive. [from Arizona Nights by Stewart 
E.  White (1873–1946), US author.] it is high time that —— it is past the time when something should have happened or been done: it was high time that she faced the facts. on high in or to heaven or a high place: a spotter plane circling on high. on one's high horse informal used to refer to someone's behaving in an arrogant or pompous manner: get down off your high horse. run high (of a river) be full and close to overflowing, with a strong current. 
• (of feelings) be intense: passions run high when marriages break up.ORIGIN Old English hēah, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch hoog and German hoch .
