hit 
BrE hɪt, AmE hɪt 

A.  transitive verb(present participle -tt-; past tense, past participle hit) 
① (strike) 击 jī to hit the ball out of the court 把球打出场外 to hit the nail with the hammer 用锤子敲钉子 to hit [somebody] on the back 拍某人的背 he didn't know what hit him figurative 他惊得目瞪口呆 to hit [somebody] (straight or right) between the eyes figurative 对某人来说一目了然 to hit it off (with [somebody]) figurative colloquial （与某人）一见如故 → nail 
A. 
① 
② (reach target) 击中 jīzhòng Sport 击中得分 jīzhòng défēn to hit the target 命中目标 to fire and hit [somebody] 开枪打中某人 to hit a home run 打出本垒打 to hit [somebody]/[something] where it hurts colloquial 击中某人/某事物的要害 
③ (collide with) 碰撞 pèngzhuàng to hit one's head on [something] 头碰到某物 to hit the roof or ceiling figurative colloquial 勃然大怒 
④ (press) 按 àn ‹button, switch›; 踩 cǎi ‹brakes›
⑤ (attack) 攻击 gōngjī 
⑥ figurative (affect adversely) 对…造成不良影响 duì… zàochéng bùliáng yǐngxiǎng to be hit by strikes/bad weather 受到罢工打击/恶劣天气的影响 his death hit me badly 他的死对我打击很大 
⑦ figurative (reach) 到达 dàodá to hit town 到镇上来 to hit the main road 上主干道 to hit the spot colloquial 切合需要 to hit 40° «temperature» 达到40度 to hit a record high «currency» 创下历史新高 to hit the high notes 唱高音 to hit the big time colloquial 一举成名 
⑧ figurative colloquial (go out to) 去 qù to hit the town/pub 去城里/去酒吧 
⑨ figurative (feature in) «news, story» 是…的重要新闻 shì… de zhòngyào xīnwén ‹papers›to hit the headlines 上头版头条 
⑩ figurative (encounter) 遇到 yùdào ‹bad weather, problem›to hit the worst of the rush hour 赶上交通最拥挤的时候 
⑪ figurative colloquial (become apparent to) 使突然意识到 shǐ tūrán yìshi dào it suddenly hit me 我突然记起来 the full horror hit me 我突然感到非常恐惧 
⑫ figurative colloquial (raid) 抢劫 qiǎngjié ‹bank, shop›
⑬ figurative slang (kill) 行凶杀死 xíngxiōng shāsǐ (mug) 行凶抢劫 xíngxiōng qiǎngjié 
B.  intransitive verb(present participle -tt-; past tense, past participle hit) 
① (occur) «tornado» 突然袭来 tūrán xílái 
② (attack) «army» 发动进攻 fādòng jìngōng 
C.  noun 
① Sport 击 jī to give the ball a tremendous hit 大力击球 to score a hit Sport 击中 jīzhòng figurative colloquial 一炮打响 yī pào dǎxiǎng 
② (strike on target) 击中 jīzhòng to take a hit literal 受到损坏 figurative 受到严重影响 shòudào yánzhòng yǐngxiǎng 
③ (popular person) 受欢迎的人 shòu huānyíng de rén (popular song) 流行歌曲 liúxíng gēqǔ to be a big or smash hit «show» 风靡一时 «record» 十分畅销 shífēn chàng xiāo to be a (big) hit with [somebody] colloquial （极）受某人喜爱 before noun 畅销的 chàngxiāo de ‹song, record›; 风靡一时的 fēngmǐ yīshí de ‹film, series›
④ slang (dose) [毒品的] 一剂 yī jì 
⑤ slang (murder) 谋杀 móushā 
⑥ Computing (visit to a website) 点击 diǎnjī (in search results) 搜索结果 sōusuǒ jiéguǒ to get 10,000 hits a day 日访问量1万次 PHRASAL VERBS hit back 
A.  transitive verb 
① [hit somebody back] (strike in return) 回击 huíjī 
② [hit something back, hit back something] Sport 把…击回 bǎ… jīhuí ‹ball, shot›
B.  intransitive verbto hit back at [somebody]/[something] 
① (strike, criticize) 反击某人/某事物 fǎnjī mǒu rén/mǒu shìwù 
② (retaliate) 报复某人/某事物 bàofù mǒu rén/mǒu shìwù hit out: intransitive verb to hit out at [somebody]/[something]; literal 猛打某人/某物 figurative 猛烈抨击某人/某事物 měngliè pēngjī mǒu rén/mǒu shìwù to hit out in all directions 朝四面八方乱打一气 hit on transitive verb 
① [hit on something] (think of) 突然想到 tūrán xiǎngdào ‹idea, solution›she hit on the perfect title 她灵机一动，想到了这个理想的标题 
② [hit on something] (find) 偶然找到 ǒurán zhǎodào ‹gift›
③ [hit on somebody] especially AmE colloquial (chat up) 挑逗 tiǎodòu hit upon transitive verb = hit on 
①, 
② 
hit 
hit

▶verb (hits, hitting, hit) [with object]
1 bring one's hand or a tool or weapon into contact with (someone or something) quickly and forcefully: the woman hit the mugger with her umbrella 
[no object] : use your words, but do not hit 
the police hit out with billy clubs. 
• accidentally strike (part of one's body) against something, often causing injury: she fainted and hit her head on the metal bedstead. 
• (of a moving object or body) come into contact with (someone or something stationary) quickly and forcefully: a car hit the barrier. 
• informal touch or press (part of a machine or other device) in order to work it: he picked up the phone and hit several buttons.
2 cause harm or distress to: the area has been badly hit by business closures. 
• [no object] (hit out) make a strongly worded criticism or attack: he hit out at suppliers for hyping their products. 
• (of a disaster) occur in and cause damage to (an area) suddenly: the country was hit by a major earthquake. 
• informal, chiefly North American attack and rob or kill: if they're cops, maybe it's not a good idea to have them hit. 
• informal be affected by (an unfortunate and unexpected circumstance or event): the opening of the town center hit a snag.
3 (of a missile or a person aiming one) strike (a target): the sniper fired and hit a third man. 
• informal reach (a particular level, point, or figure): his career hit rock bottom. 
• informal arrive at or go to (a place): we hit a diner for coffee and doughnuts 
it was still night when we hit the outskirts of Chicago. 
• be suddenly and vividly realized by: [with object and clause] : it hit her that I wanted to settle down here. 
• [no object] take effect: we sat waiting for the caffeine to hit. 
• informal give (someone) a dose of a drug or an alcoholic drink. 
• informal (of a product) become available and make an impact on: the latest board game to hit the market. 
• informal used to express the idea that someone is taking up a pursuit or taking it seriously: more and more teenagers are hitting the books.
4 propel (a ball) with a bat, racket, stick, etc., to score or attempt to score runs or points in a game. 
• score (runs or points) by hitting a ball with a bat, racket, or stick: he had hit 25 home runs. 
• [no object] Baseball (of a batter) make a base hit. 
▶noun
1 an instance of striking or being struck: few structures can withstand a hit from a speeding car. 
• a verbal attack: he could not resist a hit at his friend's religiosity. 
• informal, chiefly North American a murder, typically one planned and carried out by a criminal organization. 
• Baseball short for base hit.
2 an instance of striking the target aimed at: one of the bombers had scored a direct hit. 
• a successful venture, especially in entertainment: he was the director of many big hits 
[as modifier] : a hit comedy. 
• a successful film, pop record, or song: he was the director of many big hits. 
• informal a successful and popular person or thing: handsome, smiling, and smart, he was an immediate hit. 
• Computing an instance of identifying an item of data that matches the requirements of a search. 
• an instance of a particular website being accessed by a user: the site gets an average 350,000 hits per day.
3 informal a dose of a psychoactive drug. 
PHRASES
hit-and-miss 
ˈˌhit n ˈmis 
done or occurring at random: picking a remedy can be a bit hit-and-miss. hit someone below the belt Boxing give one's opponent an illegal low blow. 
• behave unfairly, especially so as to gain an unfair advantage. hit someone for six see six. hit the bottle see bottle. hit the ground running informal start something and proceed at a fast pace with enthusiasm. hit the hay see hay1. hit home see home. hit it off informal be naturally friendly or well suited. hit the jackpot see jackpot. hit the mark be successful in an attempt or accurate in a guess. hit the nail on the head find exactly the right answer. hit-or-miss 
ˈˌhid ôr ˈmis 
as likely to be unsuccessful as successful: her work can be hit-or-miss. hit the right note see note. hit the road (or trail) informal set out on a journey.hit the roof see roof. hit the sack see sack1. hit the spot see spot. make a hit be successful or popular: you made a big hit with her.PHRASAL VERBS hit on
1 (also hit upon) discover or think of, especially by chance: she hit on a novel idea for fund-raising.
2 North American make sexual advances toward. hit someone up North American informal ask someone for something, typically money: he hit up some family members 
I have an employee who is always hitting me up for a raise. 
• [usually in imperative] contact someone: if you have a serious band and would like to play some music, hit me up.ORIGIN late Old English hittan (in the sense ‘come upon, find’), from Old Norse hitta ‘come upon, meet with,’ of unknown origin.
