hole 
BrE həʊl, AmE hoʊl 

A.  noun 
① (aperture) 洞 dòng to have holes in one's tights 连裤袜上有破洞 a hole in the ozone layer 臭氧层空洞 to need [something] like a hole in the head figurative colloquial 绝对不需要某物 
② (hollow, depression) (in road, man-made) 坑洼 kēngwā (pothole) 壶穴 hú xué to dig a hole 挖一个坑 
③ (of mouse, fox, rabbit) 洞穴 dòngxué 
④ (in golf) (target) 球洞 qiúdòng (division of course) 球座到球洞的区域 qiúzuò dào qiúdòng de qūyù a nine-hole golf course 有9个洞的高尔夫球场 to get a hole in one 一杆打入球洞 
⑤ figurative (flaw) 漏洞 lòudòng to pick or knock holes in an argument 从论证中找出破绽 
⑥ figurative (shortage) 短缺 duǎnquē (financial loss) 财政窘境 cáizhèng jiǒngjìng to make a (big) hole in profits 用掉（大量的）利润 
⑦ colloquial (awkward situation) 窘境 jiǒngjìng to get oneself into/out of a hole 陷入/摆脱困境 
⑧ colloquial pejorative (unpleasant place) 狭小简陋的地方 xiáxiǎo jiǎnlòu de dìfang a dreadful hole 糟糕的鬼地方 
B.  transitive verb 
① (make hole in) 在…上打洞 zài… shang dǎ dòng ‹ship, defences›
② (in golf) 把…打入球洞 bǎ… dǎrù qiúdòng ‹ball, shot›PHRASAL VERBS hole out intransitive verb 
① (in golf) 击球入洞 jī qiú rù dòng 
② (in cricket) «batsman» 击球被接出局 jī qiú bèi jiē chūjú hole up intransitive verb 躲藏 duǒcáng they were holed up in the hills 他们躲在山里 
hole 
hōl

▶noun
1 a hollow place in a solid body or surface: he dug out a small hole in the snow. 
• an animal's burrow. 
• an aperture passing through something: he had a hole in his sock. 
• a cavity or receptacle on a golf course, typically one of eighteen or nine, into which the ball must be hit. 
• a hole as representing a division of a golf course or of play in golf: Stephen lost the first three holes to Eric. 
• Physics a position from which an electron is absent, especially one regarded as a mobile carrier of positive charge in a semiconductor. 
• [in place names] a valley: Jackson Hole.
2 informal a small or unpleasant place: she had wasted a whole lifetime in this hole of a town. 
• informal an awkward situation: get yourself out of a hole. 
▶verb [with object]
1 make a hole or holes in: a fuel tank was holed by the attack and a fire started.
2 Golf hit (the ball) so that it falls into a hole: alternate shots from each partner until the ball is holed 
[no object] : he holed in one at the third. 
PHRASES
blow a hole in ruin the effectiveness of (something): the amendment could blow a hole in the legislation. in the hole North American informal in debt: we're still three thousand dollars in the hole. in holes worn so much that holes have formed: my clothes are in holes. make a hole in use a large amount of: holidays can make a big hole in your savings. need something like a hole in the head informal used to emphasize that someone has absolutely no need or desire for something. a square peg in a round hole see peg. PHRASAL VERBS hole out Golf send the ball into a hole. hole up informal hide oneself: I holed up for two days in a tiny cottage in Pennsylvania.DERIVATIVES holey 
ˈhōlē 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English hol (noun), holian (verb), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch hol (noun) ‘cave,’ (adjective) ‘hollow,’ and German hohl ‘hollow,’ from an Indo-European root meaning ‘cover, conceal.’
