home 
BrE həʊm, AmE hoʊm 
A. noun 
① Uncountable and countable(one's house, flat) 家 jiā to leave home (to go out, go to work etc.) 离开家 (move out) 搬出去 to set up home BrE 建立家庭 to make one's home somewhere 在某处定居 to be away from home (on business) 外出工作不在家 (travelling) 外出旅行不在家 wàichū lǚxíng bùzài jiā Sport BrE 在客场比赛 zài kèchǎng bǐsài close to or near (to) home figurative (accurate) 正中要害 (affecting one directly) 有直接影响 his questions were a bit too close to home 他的问题有点过于直截了当 a home from BrE or away from AmE home 舒适如家的地方 home sweet home 可爱的家 there's no place like home proverb 家总是家啊 home is where the heart is proverb 心在哪儿，家就在哪儿 before noun (of the place where one lives) 家的 jiā de ‹surroundings›; 家庭的 jiātíng de ‹background, troubles, furnishings›; (for use in one's own house) 家用的 jiāyòng de ‹appliance, computer›a free home delivery service 免费送货上门服务 an increase in home repossessions 房屋收回数量的增长 
② Countable(family base) 家庭 jiātíng ‘good home wanted’ “为宠物寻找好人家” 
③ CountableBusn (property) 房子 fángzi low-cost homes 廉价住宅 
④ Uncountable and countable(one's town or district) 家乡 jiāxiāng (one's country) 祖国 zǔguó (where one lives) 居住地 jūzhùdì to make a place one's home 在一处地方安家 my spiritual home 我的精神家园 
⑤ Countable(place of origin) 发祥地 fāxiángdì Greece, the home of democracy 希腊，民主的发祥地 Wimbledon, the home of tennis 温布尔登，网球的发源地 
⑥ Uncountable and countable(plant habitat) 产地 chǎndì (animal habitat) 栖息地 qīxīdì this region is the home of many species of wild flower 这个地区有很多种类的野花 the Rockies are home to bears and mountain lions 落基山脉地区是熊和美洲狮的栖息地 
⑦ Countablecolloquial (place for keeping sth.) 存放地 cúnfàng de to find a home for [something] 找到存放某物的地方 
⑧ Countable(place of residential care) (for old people) 养老院 yǎnglǎoyuàn (for children) 保育院 bǎoyùyuàn (for the mentally ill) 精神病院 jīngshénbìngyuàn (for the sick) 疗养院 liáoyǎngyuàn ; BrE (for pets) 收养所 shōuyǎngsuǒ 
B.  adjectivebefore noun 
① especially BrE (national) 国内的 guónèi de ‹affairs, news, market›
② Sport 主场的 zhǔchǎng de ‹match, player, crowd›
③ AmE Busn 总部的 zǒngbù de ‹office›
C.  adverb 
① (to one's house, flat) 到家 dàojiā (in one's house, flat) 在家 zàijiā to see/drive [somebody] home 送某人/开车送某人回家 on the journey home 在回家途中 when will he be home from work? 他什么时间下班回到家？ to be nothing to write home about figurative colloquial 平平常常 to be home and dry BrE, to be home free AmE 成功 
② (to one's town) 向家乡 xiàng jiāxiāng ; (to one's country) 向祖国 xiàng zǔguó ‹go, come, return›
③ (in one's town) 在家乡 zài jiāxiāng (in one's country) 在祖国 zài zǔguó it's great to be home and seeing all my old friends again 回到家乡再次见到所有老朋友太好了 I wonder how everyone's getting on back home in England 我想知道大家在英格兰老家的情况 
④ Sport (in race) 向终点 xiàng zhōngdiǎn the favourite romped home
3 lengths ahead 那匹热门马以领先3个马身的优势轻松到达终点 
⑤ (into position) 到位 dàowèi to hammer the nail home 用锤子把钉子敲到头 to drive the ball home 踢球破门 the torpedo struck home on the hull of the ship 鱼雷正中船身 
⑥ figurative (creating awareness) 深刻地 shēnkè de to hit or strike home 正中要害 her remark really struck home 她的话的确说到了点子上 to drive or hammer [something] home (to [somebody]) （给某人）把某事讲透彻 the television pictures brought home to us the full horror of the attack 电视画面使我们清楚真切地了解到袭击的恐怖 to come home to [somebody] 使某人完全明白 
D.  at home adverb phrase 
① (in one's house) 在家里 zài jiā li ‹work, stay›to live at home 和父母一起生活 
② (comfortable) 舒适自在地 shūshì zìzai de he feels very at home on a horse 他骑马得心应手 he's not really at home on the stage 他在台上有点拘束 to make oneself at home 不拘束 
③ (in one's town) 在本地 zài běndì (in one's country) 在本土 zài běntǔ (in one's town, country)at home and abroad 在国内外 
④ Sport (on own ground) «team» 在主场 zài zhǔchǎng ‹win, lose, draw›
⑤ dated (receiving visitors) 准备好接待客人 zhǔnbèi hǎo jiēdài kèrén I'm not at home to anyone today 我今天不接待任何人 PHRASAL VERB home in on transitive verb[home in on something] 
① (move towards) «missile» 导向 dǎoxiàng ‹target›sharks can home in on tiny amounts of blood in the sea 鲨鱼在海里能精确定位极少量的血 
② (focus on) 注意到某事物 zhùyì dào mǒu shìwù the FBI has begun to home in on the Guatemalan connection 联邦调查局已经盯上了危地马拉的贩毒网络 
home 
▶noun
1 they fled their homes: residence, place of residence, house, apartment, flat, bungalow, cottage; accommodations, property, quarters, rooms, lodgings; a roof over one's head; address, place; informal pad, digs; hearth, nest; formal domicile, abode, dwelling, dwelling place, habitation.
2 an Italian stonemason far from his home. See homeland.
3 a home for the elderly: institution, nursing home, retirement home, rest home; children's home; hospice, shelter, refuge, retreat, asylum, hostel, halfway house.
4 the home of fine wines: origin, source, cradle, fount, fountainhead.
▶adjective
1 the home market: domestic, internal, local, national, interior. ANTONYMS foreign, international.
2 home movies 
the sale of home produce: homemade, homegrown, family.
PHRASES
at home
1 I was at home all day: in, in one's house, present, available, indoors, inside, here.
2 she felt very much at home: at ease, comfortable, relaxed, content; in one's element, on one's own turf.
3 he is at home with mathematics: confident with, conversant with, proficient in; used to, familiar with, au fait with, au courant with, skilled in, experienced in, well versed in. bring home to someone Sylvia's overdose brought home to them the fragility of their own lives: make someone realize, make someone understand, make someone aware, make clear to someone; drive home to someone, impress upon someone, draw attention to, focus attention on, underline, highlight, spotlight, emphasize, stress; informal clue someone in to. hit home See hit home, at hit. home free when the inspector at the third checkpoint nodded at Mitchell, I knew we were home free 
I passed the final flag with so much stamina that I knew I was home free: safe, secure, out of danger, off the hook; assured of success, the winner, victorious; informal golden. home in on the reporters immediately wanted to home in on his broken engagement: focus on, concentrate on, zero in on, center on, fix on; highlight, spotlight, target, underline, pinpoint, track, zoom in on. nothing to write home about informal the amusement park was enjoyable enough, but nothing to write home about: unexceptional, mediocre, ordinary, commonplace, indifferent, average, middle-of-the-road, run-of-the-mill, garden variety; boring, mundane, humdrum, ho-hum; tolerable, passable, adequate, fair; informal OK, so-so, 'comme ci, comme ça', plain-vanilla, no great shakes, not so hot.
