honour 
BrE ˈɒnə, AmE ˈɑnər
BrE 
A.  noun 
① Uncountable(high principles) 正义感 zhèngyìgǎn a sense of honour 廉耻心 a man of honour 品德高尚的人 to give ([somebody]) one's word of honour （向某人）郑重承诺 a matter/point of honour 道义上的事 to be on one's honour (to do [something]) 以人格担保（做某事） honour is satisfied dated or humorous 双方都保住了尊严 on or upon one's honour dated 以人格担保 (there is) honour among thieves proverb 盗亦有道 
② Uncountable and countable(glory, reputation) 荣誉 róngyù a medal/title of honour 荣誉勋章/称号 it is a matter of honour 这事事关荣辱 to be buried with full military honours 以隆重的军葬礼下葬 to do the honours colloquial 履行社交职责 
③ Countable(credit) 光荣 guāngróng an honour to the profession 这一行业的光荣 
④ Countableformal (privilege) 荣幸 róngxìng to have the honour of meeting [somebody] 有幸见到某人 it is a great honour (for me) to be invited 承蒙邀请，不胜荣幸 will you do me the honour of dining with me? 你能赏光与我共进晚餐吗？ to what do I owe this honour? formal or humorous 我缘何享此殊荣？ 
⑤ Uncountable(respect) 崇敬 chóngjìng to be seated in the place of honour 坐在上席 (to do [something]) in honour of [somebody]/[something] 为了向某人/某事物表示敬意（做某事） a ceremony in honour of [something]/[somebody] 为某事物/某人举行的仪式 flags were flying in honour of the occasion 旗帜飘扬，庆祝这一盛会 
⑥ Countable(title) His/Her/Your honour (judge) 法官大人 AmE (mayor) 市长阁下 shìzhǎng géxià 
B.  honours noun plural 
① University (course) 优等生课程 yōuděngshēng kèchéng (grade) 优异成绩 yōuyì chéngjì to graduate with honours 以优异成绩毕业 
② (in cards) 最大点数的牌 zuì dà diǎnshù de pái 
C.  transitive verb 
① (respect) 尊敬 zūnjìng our honoured guests 我们的贵宾 to honour [somebody's] memory 缅怀某人 
② (give glory to) 给…以荣誉 gěi… yǐ róngyù to be honoured with a knighthood (for [something]) （因某事）荣获爵士头衔 
③ formal (make proud, pleased) 使感到荣幸 shǐ gǎndào róngxìng I feel highly honoured by her trust in me 她对我的信任让我感到万分荣幸 will you honour us with a visit some time? 如蒙光临，荣幸之至 
④ (fulfil, be bound by) 履行 lǚxíng ‹promise, contract›; 执行 zhíxíng ‹policy›; 承认…有效 chéngrèn… yǒuxiào ‹signature›
⑤ Finance 承兑 chéngduì ‹cheque, draft›; 承还 chénghuán ‹debt›; 承付 chéngfù ‹bill›
honor 
▶noun
1 a man of honor: integrity, honesty, uprightness, ethics, morals, morality, principles, high principles, righteousness, high-mindedness; virtue, goodness, decency, probity, character, good character, scrupulousness, worth, fairness, justness, trustworthiness, reliability, dependability. ANTONYMS unscrupulousness, dishonor.
2 a mark of honor: distinction, recognition, privilege, glory, kudos, cachet, prestige, merit, credit; importance, illustriousness, notability; respect, esteem, approbation. ANTONYMS disgrace.
3 our honor is at stake: reputation, name, good name, good credit, character, esteem, repute, image, standing, stature, status, popularity.
4 he was welcomed with honor: acclaim, acclamation, applause, accolades, adoration, tributes, compliments, salutes, bouquets; homage, praise, veneration, glory, reverence, adulation, exaltation; dated laud. ANTONYMS contempt.
5 she had the honor of meeting the First Lady: privilege, pleasure, pride, joy; compliment, favor, distinction. ANTONYMS shame.
6 military honors: accolade, award, reward, prize, decoration, distinction, medal, ribbon, star, laurel.
7 dated she died defending her honor: chastity, virginity, maidenhead, purity, innocence, modesty; archaic virtue, maidenhood.
▶verb
1 we should honor our parents: esteem, respect, admire, defer to, look up to; appreciate, value, cherish, adore; reverence, revere, venerate, worship; informal put on a pedestal. ANTONYMS disrespect.
2 they were honored at a special ceremony: applaud, acclaim, praise, salute, recognize, celebrate, commemorate, commend, hail, lionize, exalt, eulogize, pay homage to, pay tribute to, sing the praises of; formal laud. ANTONYMS disgrace, criticize.
3 he honored the contract: fulfill, observe, keep, obey, heed, follow, carry out, discharge, implement, execute, effect; keep to, abide by, adhere to, comply with, conform to, be true to, live up to. ANTONYMS disobey.CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD honor, deference, homage, obeisance, reverence The biblical Ten Commandments include the instruction “honor thy father and mother.” But what does honor entail? While all of these nouns describe the respect or esteem that one shows to another, honor implies acknowledgment of a person's right to such respect (honor one's ancestors; honor the dead). Homage is honor with praise or tributes added, and it connotes a more worshipful attitude (pay homage to the king). Reverence combines profound respect with love or devotion (he treated his wife with reverence), while deference suggests courteous regard for a superior, often by yielding to the person's status or wishes (show deference to one's elders). Obeisance is a show of honor or reverence by an act or gesture of submission or humility, such as a bow or a curtsy (the schoolchildren were instructed to pay obeisance when the Queen arrived).These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
