hook 
BrE hʊk, AmE hʊk 

A.  noun 
① (for clothes, picture) 挂钩 guàgōu by hook or by crook figurative colloquial 千方百计地 
② Fishing 鱼钩 yúgōu to fall for [something] hook, line, and sinker colloquial 完全被某事物欺骗 to be off the hook figurative 摆脱责任 to get/let [somebody] off the hook figurative 使/让某人摆脱责任 to get one's hooks into [somebody] figurative 使某人上钩 
③ (in sewing) 钩眼扣 gōuyǎnkòu 
④ (on arm) 钩状假手 gōuzhuàng jiǎshǒu 
⑤ Telecommunications off the hook 不挂上 bù guàshang to take/leave the phone off the hook 摘下电话听筒 zhāixia diànhuà tīngtǒng 
⑥ Agriculture 镰刀 liándāo 
⑦ (in boxing) 钩拳 gōuquán 
⑧ (in golf, cricket) 曲线球 qūxiànqiú 
⑨ figurative (bait) 诱惑 yòuhuò to look for a sales hook 寻找卖点 
B.  transitive verb 
① (hang) 用钩挂 yòng gōu guà (fasten) 钩住 gōuzhù to hook [something] to the back of the car 把某物挂在汽车尾部 to be or get hooked on a nail (accidentally) 被钉子钩住 
② (bend) 使成钩状 shǐ chéng gōuzhuàng to hook one's finger 屈指 to hook one's foot under a stool 用脚从底下钩住凳子 
③ Fishing 钓 diào ‹fish›
④ figurative humorous (acquire) 钓到 diàodào ‹spouse›
⑤ Sport (in rugby) 用脚钩…给队友 yòng jiǎo gōu… gěi duìyǒu ‹ball›to hook the ball (in golf, cricket) 打出曲线球 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (be fastened) 用钩固定 yòng gōu gùdìng to hook at the back «garment» 在背部用钩眼扣扣住 
② (be hung) 用钩挂 yòng gōu guà to hook over the roof ridge «ladder» 钩挂在屋脊上 
③ (be bent) 弯成钩状 wānchéng gōuzhuàng to hook around [somebody's] neck «arm» 勾住某人的脖子 PHRASAL VERBS hook on 
A.  intransitive verb «attachment, trailer» 钩住 gōuzhù 
B.  transitive verb[hook something on, hook on something] 挂上 guàshang ‹trailer, lamp›hook together 
A.  transitive verb[hook something together] 用钩连接 yòng gōu liánjiē ‹pieces, wagons›
B.  intransitive verb «pieces, wagons» 用钩连接 yòng gōu liánjiē hook up 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (be fastened) «garment» 用搭扣扣住 yòng dākòu kòuzhù 
② to hook up with [somebody] figurative colloquial (meet up) 与某人碰头 (work together) 与某人搭档 yǔ mǒu rén dādàng 
B.  transitive verb[hook up somebody/something, hook somebody/something up] 
① (fasten) 扣上…的钩眼扣 kòushang… de gōuyǎnkòu ‹dress›can you hook me up? 你能帮我扣上扣子吗？ 
② to hook [somebody]/[something] up to [something] (attach, connect) 把某人/某物与某物连接 bǎ mǒu rén/mǒu wù yǔ mǒu wù liánjiē the computer is hooked up to the printer 计算机与打印机相连接 she was hooked up to an IV drip 她在输液 
③ (join with hook) 用钩连接 yòng gōu liánjiē ‹trailer, wagon›to hook up the caravan to the vehicle 把活动住房挂到汽车上 
④ Radio, Television 把…装接起来 bǎ… zhuāngjiē qilai ‹stations›
hook 
ho͝ok

▶noun
1 a piece of metal or other material, curved or bent back at an angle, for catching hold of or hanging things on: a picture hook. 
• (also fishhook) a bent piece of metal, typically barbed and baited, for catching fish.
2 a thing designed to catch people's attention: companies are looking for a sales hook. 
• a chorus or repeated instrumental passage in a piece of popular music that gives it immediate appeal and makes it easy to remember.
3 a curved cutting instrument, especially as used for reaping or shearing.
4 a short swinging punch made with the elbow bent, especially in boxing: a perfectly timed right hook to the chin. 
• Golf a stroke that makes the ball deviate in flight in the direction of the follow-through (from right to left for a right-handed player), typically inadvertently. Compare with slice.
5 a curved stroke in handwriting, especially as made in learning to write. 
• Music an added stroke transverse to the stem in the symbol for an eighth note or other note.
6 [usually in place names] a curved promontory or sand spit. 
▶verb
1 [with object] attach or fasten with a hook or hooks: the truck had a red lamp hooked to its tailgate 
she tried to hook up her bra 
[no object] : a ladder that hooks over the roof ridge. 
• bend or be bent into the shape of a hook so as to fasten around or to an object: [with object] : he hooked his thumbs in his belt 
[no object] : her legs hooked around mine.
2 [with object] catch with a hook: he hooked a 24-lb pike. 
• informal captivate: I was hooked by John's radical zeal. 
• archaic, informal steal.
3 [with object] Golf strike (the ball) or play (a stroke) so that the ball deviates in the direction of the follow-through, typically inadvertently. 
• [no object] Boxing punch one's opponent with the elbow bent.
4 [with object] Rugby push (the ball) backward with the foot from the front line in a scrum.
5 [no object] (usually as noun hooking) informal (of a woman) work as a prostitute. 
PHRASES
by hook or by crook by any possible means: the government intends, by hook or by crook, to hold on to the land. get one's hooks into informal get hold of: they were going to move out rather than let Mel get his hooks into them. get (or give someone) the hook North American informal be dismissed (or dismiss someone) from a job. hook, line, and sinker used to emphasize that someone has been completely deceived or tricked: he fell hook, line, and sinker for this year's April Fool joke. [with allusion to the taking of bait by a fish.] off the hook
1 informal no longer in difficulty or trouble: I lied to get him off the hook.
2 (of a telephone receiver) not on its rest, and so preventing incoming calls. on the hook for North American informal (in a financial context) responsible for: he's on the hook for about $9.5 million. on one's own hook North American informal, dated on one's own account; by oneself.PHRASAL VERBS hook up
1 (also hook someone/something up) link or be linked to electronic equipment: he was hooked up to an electrocardiograph.
2 informal (of two people) meet or form a relationship: she decides to hook up with Jake, a kid from the nearby boys' school. 
• engage in or form a casual sexual relationship: hooking up with total strangers can be very dangerous.DERIVATIVES hookless adjective. hooklet 
-lit 
noun. hooklike 
-ˌlīk 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English hōc, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch hoek ‘corner, angle, projecting piece of land,’ also to German Haken ‘hook.’
