hope 
BrE həʊp, AmE hoʊp 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(expectation, optimism) 希望 xīwàng a glimmer or ray of hope 一线希望 to have great hopes of winning 很有希望获胜 to give up/lose hope 放弃/失去希望 to live in hope (of [something]) （对某事物）抱有希望 to place or put or set or pin (all) one's hopes on [somebody]/[something] 把（所有的）希望寄托在某人身上/某事物上 to build up or raise [somebody's] hopes 激起某人的希望 don't get your hopes up 别抱太大希望 to be beyond hope (of [something]) 毫无（…的）希望 hope springs eternal in the human breast proverb 人心永远充满希望 to see some hope for the future 看到未来的一些希望 
② Countable(aspiration) 期望 qīwàng to have high hopes for one's children 对孩子寄予厚望 my only hope is that he will be happy 我唯一的希望是他可以幸福 
③ Uncountable and countable(that which gives hope) 希望所在 xīwàng suǒ zài (chance) 可能性 kěnéngxìng (promising person) 有前途的人 yǒu qiántú de rén you're my last hope! 你是我最后的希望！ her only hope of survival 她生存的唯一希望 there's not much hope that he'll come 他来的可能性不大 not to have a hope in hell (of doing [something]) colloquial 毫无机会（做某事） not or what a hope! BrE colloquial, some hope! colloquial 不可能！ 
B.  transitive verb 
① (want, expect) 希望 xīwàng to hope to make a lot of money 指望赚大钱 what is it you hope to achieve? 你想达到什么目的？ I hope he comes today 但愿他今天来 hoping to hear from you (in letter) 期盼你的回信 
② (expressing polite wish, disapproval) to hope (that) …; 但愿… dànyuàn… I hope we didn't disturb you 但愿我们没有打扰你 
C.  intransitive verb 希望 xīwàng I hope so/not 希望如此/但愿不会 to hope against hope (that …) （对…）仍然抱一线希望 to hope for the best 尽量往好处想 to hope for good weather on Sunday 盼望星期天天气好 all we can do now is hope 现在我们能做的就是期待 
hope 
hōp

▶noun
1 a feeling of expectation and desire for a certain thing to happen: he looked through her belongings in the hope of coming across some information 
I had high hopes of making the Olympic team. 
• a person or thing that may help or save someone: their only hope is surgery. 
• grounds for believing that something good may happen: he does see some hope for the future.
2 archaic a feeling of trust. 
▶verb [no object] want something to happen or be the case: he's hoping for an offer of compensation 
[with clause] : I hope that the kids are O
K.  
• [with infinitive] intend if possible to do something: we're hoping to address all these issues. 
PHRASES
hope against hope cling to a mere possibility: they were hoping against hope that he would find a way out. hope for the best hope for a favorable outcome. hope springs eternal (in the human breast) proverb it is human nature to always find fresh cause for optimism.in hopes of with the aim of: I lay on a towel in the park in hopes of getting a tan. in hopes that hoping that: they are screaming in hopes that a police launch will pick us up. not a hope (in hell) informal no chance at all: this team doesn't have a hope in hell of making the playoffs.DERIVATIVES hoper nounORIGIN late Old English hopa (noun), hopian (verb), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch hoop (noun), hopen (verb), and German hoffen (verb).
