horse 
BrE hɔːs, AmE hɔrs 
noun 
① CountableZoology 马 mǎ to mount/ride a horse 跨上/骑着马 the horses colloquial 赛马 sàimǎ to back the wrong horse figurative 支持失败一方 to change or swap horses in midstream figurative 中途改变支持对象 (straight) from the horse's mouth figurative （直接）来自有关人士的 to get or be on one's high horse figurative 举止傲慢 a horse of a different or another colour figurative 风马牛不相及的事物 to flog a dead horse figurative colloquial 白费劲 hold your horses! figurative colloquial 耐心点！ you can take a horse to water but you can't make it drink proverb 老牛不饮水，不能强按头 wild horses wouldn't drag it out of me figurative colloquial 我一定守口如瓶 
② Countable(stallion) 成年公马 chéngnián gōng mǎ 
③ UncountableMilitary 骑兵马 qíbīngmǎ light horse 轻骑兵 
④ Countable(in gymnastics) 鞍马 ānmǎ PHRASAL VERB horse about, horse around intransitive verb colloquial 胡闹 húnào 
horse 
hôrs

▶noun
1 a solid-hoofed plant-eating domesticated mammal with a flowing mane and tail, used for riding, racing, and to carry and pull loads. [Equus caballus, family Equidae (the horse family), descended from the wild Przewalski's horse. The horse family also includes the asses and zebras.] 
• an adult male horse; a stallion or gelding. 
• a wild mammal of the horse family. 
• [treated as singular or plural] cavalry: forty horse and sixty foot.
2 a frame or structure on which something is mounted or supported, especially a sawhorse. 
• Nautical a horizontal bar, rail, or rope in the rigging of a sailing ship for supporting something. 
• short for pommel horse or vaulting horse.
3 informal heroin.
4 informal a unit of horsepower: the huge 63-horse 701-cc engine.
5 Mining an obstruction in a vein. 
▶verb [with object] (usually be horsed) provide (a person or vehicle) with a horse or horses. 
PHRASES
beat (or British flog) a dead horse waste energy on a lost cause or unalterable situation. don't change horses in midstream proverb choose a sensible moment to change your mind. frighten the horses [usually with negative] do something likely to cause public outrage or offense: David's views would not have frightened the horses. from the horse's mouth (of information) from the person directly concerned or another authoritative source. horses for courses British proverb different people are suited to different things or situations. to horse (as a command) mount your horses! you can lead (or take) a horse to water but you can't make him drink proverb you can give someone an opportunity, but you can't force them to take it.PHRASAL VERBS horse around informal fool around: schoolkids laughing and horsing around.DERIVATIVES horselike 
-līk 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English hors, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch ros and German Ross .
