hostile 
BrE ˈhɒstʌɪl, AmE ˈhɑstl, ˈhɑˌstaɪl 
adjective 
① (unfriendly) 不友善的 bù yǒushàn de ‹expression, manner, person›; (antagonistic) 有敌意的 yǒu díyì de ‹attack, audience, crowd›to be hostile to or towards [somebody]/[something]; 对某人/某事物怀有敌意 
② (opposed) 反对的 fǎnduì de ‹criticism, opinion, attitude›
③ (unwelcoming) 不利的 bùlì de ‹situation, conditions, environment›
④ Military 敌人的 dírén de ‹aircraft, artillery fire, forces›we came under hostile fire 我们遭遇敌方炮火攻击 
hostile 
▶adjective
1 a hostile attack: unfriendly, unkind, bitter, unsympathetic, malicious, vicious, rancorous, venomous, poisonous, virulent; antagonistic, aggressive, confrontational, belligerent, truculent, vitriolic; bellicose, pugnacious, warlike. ANTONYMS friendly, mild.
2 hostile conditions: unfavorable, adverse, bad, harsh, grim, hard, tough, brutal, fierce, inhospitable, forbidding, menacing, threatening. ANTONYMS favorable.
3 they are hostile to the idea: opposed to, averse to, antagonistic to, ill-disposed to, disapproving of, unsympathetic to, antipathetic to; opposing, against, inimical to; informal anti, down on.CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD hostile, adverse, bellicose, belligerent, inimical Few people have trouble recognizing hostility when confronted with it. Someone who is hostile displays an attitude of intense ill will and acts like an enemy (the audience grew hostile after waiting an hour for the show to start). Both bellicose and belligerent imply a readiness or eagerness to fight, but the former is used to describe a state of mind or temper (after drinking all night, he was in a bellicose mood), while the latter is normally used to describe someone who is actively engaged in hostilities (the belligerent brothers were at it again). While hostile and belligerent usually apply to people, adverse and inimical are used to describe tendencies or influences. Inimical means having an antagonistic tendency (remarks that were inimical to everything she believed in), and adverse means turned toward something in opposition (an adverse wind; under adverse circumstances). Unlike hostile, adverse and inimical need not connote the involvement of human feeling.These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
