hot 
BrE hɒt, AmE hɑt 
adjective 
① (very warm) 热的 rè de (feeling heat) 感觉热的 gǎnjué rè de hot weather 炎热的天气 a hot bath 热水浴 to be too hot to drink/touch 太烫，不能喝/摸 to be hot from the oven «bread» 新鲜出炉 the sun was hot on my back 太阳火辣辣地照在我的背上 to get [somebody] into hot water figurative colloquial 使某人惹上麻烦 to blow hot and cold (about [something]) figurative colloquial （对某事）出尔反尔 I am or feel hot 我觉得很热 to be hot with embarrassment «face» 窘得发烫 to go hot and cold literal 感觉一阵冷一阵热 figurative 突然感到害怕 tūrán gǎndào hàipà to get all hot and bothered figurative colloquial 变得焦虑不安 → cat 
①, → iron A.
③ 
② (making sb. feel heat) 使人感到热的 shǐ rén gǎndào rè de digging is hot work 挖地让人全身发热 a long, hot journey 走起来很热的长途旅程 
③ (spicy) 辣的 là de ‹spice, curry, dish›
④ (fresh) 最新的 zuì xīn de ‹news, gossip›
⑤ predicative (newly arrived) 刚到达的 gāng dàodá de hot off the press «news» 刚见报的 to be hot from the factory «product» 刚出厂 she was hot from the New York conference 她刚参加完纽约研讨会 
⑥ (intense) 激烈的 jīliè de ‹competition, debate›; 热门的 rèmén de ‹issue, topic›the pace is getting hotter 节奏越来越快 
⑦ (fiery) 易发怒的 yì fānù de to have a hot temper 脾气暴躁 
⑧ colloquial (good) 极好的 jí hǎo de the team is hot 这个队很棒 a hot tip 内部消息 to be the hot favourite (for [something]) 是（某项赛事）最被看好的选手 to be on a hot streak AmE 连连取得成功 to be hot on [something]; (knowledgeable) 通晓某事 (keen) 擅长某事 not so or too or all that hot (quality) 不太好的 (health) 不太舒服的 
⑨ (close) 紧跟的 jǐngēn de to be hot on [somebody's] trail or tracks 紧跟某人 to set off in hot pursuit (of [somebody]) 出发紧追（某人） to be hot on the trail of [something] 即将找到某物 
⑩ predicative colloquial (in games) you're getting hot (finding sth.) 你快找到了 nǐ kuài zhǎodào le (guessing answer) 你快猜中了 nǐ kuài cāizhòng le 
⑪ colloquial (popular) 当红的 dānghóng de ‹star, band›; 广受欢迎的 guǎng shòu huānyíng de ‹club, show›
⑫ predicative colloquial (rigorous) to be hot on [something] 对…要求严格 duì… yāoqiú yángé ‹grammar, manners›he's hot on environmental protection 他很重视环保 tā hěn zhòngshì huánbǎo 
⑬ colloquial (difficult, dangerous) 艰难的 jiānnán de ‹situation›to make it or things hot for [somebody] 让某人日子不好过 things are getting hot 形势越来越严峻 
⑭ colloquial (stolen) 偷来的 tōulai de 
⑮ usually attributive (bright) 鲜亮的 xiānliang de ‹colour›hot red 鲜红色 
⑯ colloquial (erotic) 色情的 sèqíng de ‹movie, scene›(sexy) 性感的 xìnggǎn de ‹guy, girl›to look hot 看上去性感 
⑰ Music 节奏强的 jiézòu qiáng de ‹jazz›
⑱ colloquial (radioactive) 强放射性的 qiáng fàngshèxìng de PHRASAL VERB hot up (present participle etc. -tt-) BrE colloquial A. intransitive verb 
① (get exciting) «match, campaign» 变得激烈起来 biàn de jīliè qilai ; «party» 变得活跃起来 biàn de huóyuè qilai things are really hotting up 形势的确越来越紧张 
② (get faster) «pace, chase» 加快 jiākuài 
③ (intensify) «competition, raids» 加剧 jiājù ; «trade» 剧增 jùzēng 
B.  transitive verb[hot something up, hot up something] 
① (make exciting) 使…变得激烈起来 shǐ… biàn de jīliè qilai ‹campaign, contest›; 使…变得活跃起来 shǐ… biàn de huóyuè qilai ‹broadcast, speech›to hot the music up 使音乐变得活泼欢快 
② (make faster) 加快 jiākuài ‹pace›
③ (intensify) 加强 jiāqiáng ‹raids, surveillance›
hot 
▶adjective
1 hot food: heated, piping hot, sizzling, steaming, roasting, boiling (hot), searing, scorching, scalding, burning, red-hot. ANTONYMS cold, chilled.
2 a hot day: very warm, balmy, summery, tropical, scorching, broiling, searing, blistering; sweltering, torrid, sultry, humid, muggy, close, boiling, baking, roasting. ANTONYMS cold, chilly.
3 she felt very hot: feverish, fevered, febrile; burning, flushed, sweaty; rare pyretic.
4 a hot chili: spicy, spiced, highly seasoned, peppery, fiery, strong; piquant, pungent, aromatic, zesty. ANTONYMS mild.
5 hot competition: fierce, intense, keen, competitive, cutthroat, dog-eat-dog, ruthless, aggressive, strong. ANTONYMS weak.
6 informal hot gossip: new, fresh, recent, late, up to date, up-to-the-minute; just out, hot off the press(es), real-time. ANTONYMS old, stale.
7 informal this band is hot: popular, in demand, sought-after, in favor; fashionable, in vogue, all the rage; informal big, in, now, hip, trendy, cool, styling/stylin'. ANTONYMS out of fashion, unpopular.
8 she thought Mark was hot: good-looking, sexy, attractive, gorgeous, handsome, beautiful; archaic comely, fair. ANTONYMS unappealing.
9 hot goods: stolen, illegally obtained, purloined, pilfered, illegal, illicit, unlawful; smuggled, fenced, bootleg, contraband. ANTONYMS lawful.
10 her dancing made him hot: aroused, sexually aroused, excited, stimulated, titillated, inflamed; informal turned on, hot to trot. ANTONYMS frigid.
PHRASES
blow hot and cold when it comes to her romantic interest in him, she blows hot and cold: vacillate, dither, shilly-shally, waver, be indecisive, change one's mind, be undecided, be uncertain, be unsure, hem and haw. hot and heavy isn't it a bit too soon for them to be so hot and heavy with each other? intense, ardent, passionate, fervid. have the hots for Liza admits that she has the hots for Ryan: be (sexually) attracted to, desire, lust after; informal have a crush on, have a thing for, be crazy about. hot on the heels/trail of the marketing mavens are hot on the heels of this latest craze: close behind, directly after, right after, straight after, hard on the heels of, following closely. hot under the collar informal See angry (sense 1). 
