hour 
BrE ˈaʊə, AmE aʊ(ə)r 

A.  noun 
① (60 minutes) 小时 xiǎoshí a solid or full hour 整整1小时 within or inside the hour 在1小时内 a one-hour examination 1小时的考试 an hour (away) from London 距离伦敦有1小时的路程 to be paid by the hour 按小时付报酬 
② (top of the hour) 整点 zhěngdiǎn the clock struck the hour 钟整点敲响 the bus leaves on the hour 公共汽车整点发车 
③ (part of day) 时段 shíduàn at an early hour 清早时分 who can that be at this hour? 这时候会是谁呢？ 
④ (point in time) 时刻 shíkè in [somebody's] hour of need 在某人困难的时候 the country's finest hour 国家最繁盛的时期 his last hour was at hand 他大限将至 
B.  hours noun plural 
① (a long time) 很长时间 hěn cháng shíjiān to wait for hours 等很久 it took hours to get there 花了好长时间才到那里 
② (opening time) (for offices) 工作时间 gōngzuò shíjiān (for shops) 营业时间 yíngyè shíjiān business/office hours 营业/办公时间 after hours (of shop, pub) 打烊后 (of office) 下班后 visiting hours (in hospital) 探视时间 
③ (as schedule) to keep early/late hours 早睡早起/晚睡晚起 zǎo shuì zǎo qǐ/wǎn shuì wǎn qǐ to keep regular/strange hours 作息有规律/怪异 zuòxī yǒu guīlǜ/guàiyì 
④ (part of day) 时段 shíduàn the early or small or AmE colloquial wee hours (of the morning) 凌晨 at all hours 在任何时间 to do [something] at all hours of the day and night 不分昼夜随时做某事 till all hours 到很晚 
⑤ (on 24-hour clock) 点钟 diǎn zhōng the train leaves at 1400 hours 列车于14点发车 
⑥ Religion [天主教的] 祈祷礼拜 qídǎo lǐbài a book of hours 祈祷书 
hour 
ˈou(ə)r

▶noun
1 a period of time equal to a twenty-fourth part of a day and night and divided into 60 minutes: an extra hour of daylight 
rates have ranged from $9 to $32 an hour 
[as modifier, usually with preceding numeral] : a two-hour operation. 
• a less definite period of time: during the early hours of the morning. 
• the distance traveled in one hour: Ocean City is less than an hour away.
2 a point in time: I wondered if my last hour had come. 
• a time of day specified as an exact number of hours from midnight or midday: the clock in the sitting room struck the hour. 
• (hours) [with preceding numeral] a time so specified on the 24-hour clock: the first bomb fell at 0051 hours. 
• the time as formerly reckoned from sunrise: it was about the ninth hour.
3 a fixed period of time for an activity, such as work, use of a building, etc.: shortened working hours 
the dinner hour.
4 (usually hours) (in the Western Church) a short service of psalms and prayers to be said at a particular time of day, especially in religious communities.
5 Astronomy 15° of longitude or right ascension (one twenty-fourth part of a circle). 
PHRASES
all hours any time, especially outside the time considered usual for something: intruders had access at all hours 
teenagers expect to be allowed to stay out to all hours. keep late hours get up and go to bed late. keep regular hours do the same thing at the same time every day. on the hour at an exact hour, or on each hour, of the day or night: news bulletins on the hour. within the hour after less than an hour.ORIGIN Middle English: from Anglo-Norman French ure, via Latin from Greek hōra ‘season, hour.’
