house 
A.  /BrE haʊs, AmE haʊs
noun(plural houses /haʊzɪz/) 
① Countable(home) 房子 fángzi at my house 在我家 to help in the house 帮忙做家务 to keep house (for [somebody]) （为某人）料理家务 to set up house (together) （共同）安家 to put or set one's (own) house in order figurative 把自己的事管好 to get on BrE or along AmE like a house on fire figurative colloquial 打得火热 to play house colloquial 玩“过家家”游戏 → eat 
A. 
① 
② Countable(household) 一家人 yī jiā rén the whole house 全家人 
③ Countablethe House Politics 议院 yìyuàn 
④ Countable(in debate) the or this house 参与议院辩论的人 to urge the house to do [something] 呼吁参与辩论的诸位做某事 
⑤ Countable(firm) 公司 gōngsī a fashion/banking/publishing house 时装公司/银行/出版社 in/out of house 在/不在公司 
⑥ Countable(establishment) 店家 diànjiā the speciality of the house 本店的特色菜 on the house 由店家免费提供 
⑦ CountableTheatre (audience) 观众 guānzhòng (seating) 观众席 guānzhòngxí ‘full house’ (on notice) “满座” to play to full/empty houses 演出满座/观众寥寥无几 to bring the house down figurative colloquial 博得满堂彩 → dry 
A. 
① 
⑧ Countable(family line) 望族 wàngzú the House of Windsor 温莎王室 
⑨ Countable BrE School (dorm) 宿舍 sùshè (team) 小组 xiǎozǔ 
⑩ CountableAstrology 黄道宫 huángdàogōng 
⑪ UncountableMusic house (music) 货仓音乐 ［一种电子乐器演奏的快节奏流行舞曲］huòcāng yīnyuè 
B.  /BrE haʊz, AmE haʊz
transitive verb 
① (give lodging to) 给…提供住处 gěi… tígōng zhùchù to be badly or poorly housed 居住条件差 to house refugees in the church (temporarily) 将难民安置在教堂里 
② (store) 收藏 shōucáng to house works of modern art «museum» 收藏现代艺术作品 
③ passive to be housed in the old courthouse (be set up in) 设在旧法院大楼里 
house 
▶noun 
hous 
(plural houses 
ˈhouziz
)
1 a building for human habitation, especially one that is lived in by a family or small group of people.house styles 
• the people living in a house; a household: do you want the whole house woken up? 
• (often House) a family or family lineage, especially a noble or royal one; a dynasty: the power and prestige of the house of Stewart. 
• [with modifier] a building in which animals live or in which things are kept: a reptile house.
2 a building in which people meet for a particular activity: a house of prayer. 
• a business or institution: he had purchased a publishing house. 
• a restaurant or inn: [as modifier] : I ordered a bottle of their house wine. 
• a residential hall at a school or college, or its residents. 
• a theater: a hundred musicians performed in front of a full house. 
• an audience in a theater or concert venue: the house burst into applause. 
• a religious community that occupies a particular building: the Cistercian house at Clairvaux. 
• dated a brothel. 
• British formal a college of a university.
3 a legislative or deliberative assembly: the sixty-member National Council, the country's upper house. 
• (the House) the House of Representatives or (in the UK or Canada) the House of Commons or Lords.
4 (also house music) a style of popular dance music typically using synthesized drum and bass lines, sparse repetitive vocals, and a fast beat.
5 Astrology any of the twelve divisions of the celestial sphere, based on the positions of the ascendant and midheaven at a given time and place, and determined by any of a number of methods. 
• a celestial division represented as a sector on an astrological chart, used in allocating elements of character and circumstance to different spheres of human life. 
▶adjective 
hous 
[attributive]
1 (of an animal or plant) kept in, frequenting, or infesting buildings.
2 relating to a business, institution, or society: a house journal. 
• (of a band or group) resident or regularly performing in a club or other venue. 
▶verb 
houz 
[with object]
1 provide (a person or animal) with shelter or living quarters: attempts by the government to house the poor.
2 provide space for; accommodate: the museum houses a collection of Roman sculpture. 
• insert or fix (something) in a socket or mortise. 
PHRASES
like a house on fire (or afire) informal vigorously; furiously. 
• excellently: Ben and my aunt got along like a house on fire. house and home a person's home (used for emphasis): some people sell house and home to sit in a boat writing books. a house divided cannot stand proverb a group or organization weakened by internal dissensions will be unable to withstand external pressures. house of cards a structure built out of playing cards precariously balanced together. 
• an insubstantial or insecure situation or scheme: his case was a house of cards until Attorney Jabowski stepped in. keep house do the cooking, cleaning, and other tasks involved in the running of a household. on the house (of a drink or meal in a bar or restaurant) at the management's expense; free. play house (of a child) play at being a family in their home. put (or set or get) one's house in order make necessary reforms: they need to put their own economic house in order. set up house make one's home in a specified place.DERIVATIVES houseful 
ˈhousˌfo͝ol 
noun (plural housefuls) . houseless 
ˈhousləs 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English hūs (noun), hūsian (verb), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch huis,German Haus (nouns), and Dutch huizen,German hausen (verbs).
