ice 
BrE ʌɪs, AmE aɪs 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(gen) 冰 bīng (on roads) 冰层 bīngcéng (in drinks) 冰块 bīngkuài a show on ice 冰上表演 bīng shang biǎoyǎn a whisky with ice 加冰块的威士忌 as cold as ice 冷得像冰一样 to put [something] on ice literal 冰镇某物 figurative 暂时搁置某事 zànshí gēzhì mǒu shì ‘danger! thin ice’ “薄冰，危险！” to be skating on thin ice figurative 如履薄冰 to break the ice figurative 消除拘谨 to cut no ice (with [somebody]) figurative （对某人）不起作用 
② Countable BrE (ice cream) 冰激凌 bīngjīlíng (ice lolly) 冰棒 bīngbàng 
③ Uncountablecolloquial (diamonds) 钻石 zuànshí (diamond jewellery) 钻石首饰 zuànshí shǒushi 
B.  transitive verb (cover with icing) 在…上挂糖霜 zài… shang guà tángshuāng PHRASAL VERBS ice over intransitive verb «window, road, pond» 结冰 jiébīng ice up intransitive verb «water pipe, windscreen wiper, lock» 结冰 jiébīng 
ice 
īs

▶noun
1 frozen water, a brittle, transparent crystalline solid: the pipes were blocked with ice. 
• complete absence of friendliness or affection in manner or expression: the ice in his voice was only to hide the pain.
2 North American a frozen mixture of fruit juice or flavored water and sugar.
3 informal diamonds.
4 informal US an illegal profit made from reselling tickets. 
• US money paid in graft or bribery.
5 informal methamphetamine. 
▶verb [with object]
1 decorate (a cake) with icing.
2 North American informal clinch (something such as a victory or deal).
3 North American informal kill: a man had been iced by the police.
4 Ice Hockey shoot (the puck) so as to commit icing. 
PHRASES
break the ice do or say something to relieve tension or get conversation going at the start of a party or when people meet for the first time. on ice
1 (of wine or food) kept chilled by being surrounded by ice. 
• (especially of a plan or proposal) held in reserve for future consideration: the recommendation was put on ice.
2 (of an entertainment) performed by skaters: Cinderella on Ice. on thin ice in a precarious or risky situation: you're skating on thin ice.PHRASAL VERBS ice over (or up) become completely covered or blocked with ice: the wings iced over, forcing the pilot to dive.ORIGIN Old English īs, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch ijs and German Eis .
