idea 
BrE ʌɪˈdɪə, AmE aɪˈdiə 
noun 
① (plan) 主意 zhǔyi she's full of good ideas 她足智多谋 that's an idea! 那是个好主意！ it's just an idea 这只是个设想 a sensible idea 明智的想法 to hit on an idea 无意中想到一个主意 
② (expectation) 期望 qīwàng to get ideas 想入非非 to give [somebody] ideas 使某人想入非非 don't give the boy ideas 不要让孩子空抱希望 to put ideas into [somebody's] head 让某人想入非非 you can get or put that idea out of your head! 你想都别想！ 
③ (intention, purpose) 目的 mùdì the idea of the game is to get rid of all your cards 这个游戏的目标是把牌全部出完 what's the idea of this handle? 这个把手是做什么用的？ what's the big idea? colloquial 这都是为了什么？ 
④ (prospect) 预期 yùqī I don't fancy the idea of sharing the flat with another family 我不想与另一户人家同住一套公寓 the very idea! 多么荒谬的想法！ what an idea! 多荒唐的想法！ 
⑤ (opinion, notion) 看法 kànfa very old-fashioned ideas about education 非常陈旧的教育观 she got the idea that I didn't really want to go 她认为我并不是真的想去 whatever gave you that idea! 你怎么会那样想！ don't run away with the idea that this is an easy job 别误以为这事很容易 
⑥ (concept) 概念 gàiniàn to have a clear idea of what [somebody] is trying to achieve 清楚某人要达到什么目的 to have no idea of the difficulties of [something] 想象不出某事的难处 the book gives the reader a better idea of life in prison 这本书让读者更好地了解监狱里的生活 his idea of a good salary is at least £40,000 a year 他心目中的高工资是至少年薪4万英镑 
⑦ (knowledge) 知晓 zhī xiǎo she had no idea that he was married 她不知道他已经结婚了 he hasn't got much idea about running a business 他不大懂得如何经营企业 not to have the faintest or foggiest or slightest or least etc. idea 一点儿也不知道 to get the idea 明白 
idea 
īˈdēə

▶noun
1 a thought or suggestion as to a possible course of action: they don't think it's a very good idea. 
• a concept or mental impression: our menu list will give you some idea of how interesting a low-fat diet can be. 
• an opinion or belief: nineteenth-century ideas about drinking.
2 (the idea) the aim or purpose: I took a job with the idea of getting some money together.
3 Philosophy (in Platonic thought) an eternally existing pattern of which individual things in any class are imperfect copies. 
• (in Kantian thought) a concept of pure reason, not empirically based in experience. 
PHRASES
get (or give someone) ideas informal become (or make someone) ambitious, bigheaded, or tempted to do something against someone else's will, especially make a sexual advance: Mac began to get ideas about turning pro. have (got) no idea informal not know at all: she had no idea where she was going. not someone's idea of informal not what someone regards as: it's not my idea of a happy ending. put ideas into someone's head suggest ambitions or thoughts that a person would not otherwise have had. that's an idea informal that suggestion or proposal is worth considering. that's the idea informal used to confirm to someone that they have understood something or they are doing something correctly: “A sort of bodyguard?” “That's the idea.” the very idea! informal an exclamation of disapproval or disagreement.ORIGIN late Middle English ( sense 3): via Latin from Greek idea ‘form, pattern,’ from the base of idein ‘to see.’
