if 
BrE ɪf, AmE ɪf 

A.  conjunction 
① (in the event that, supposing that) 假如 jiǎrú if it snows, I can't go 要是下雪的话，我就走不了 if so 如果是这样的话 if and when 万一 if and when we meet 倘若我们见面 if I were you 换了我 
② (on condition that) 只要 zhǐyào I'll help you if you pay me 你给我钱，我就帮你 I'm not coming if you invite her 你要是邀请她，我就不来 
③ (whenever) 每当 měi dāng if you mention him, she cries 每次提到他，她都会哭 if in doubt 一旦有疑问 
④ (whether) 是否 shìfǒu find out if it's true 搞清楚这是不是真的 he asked if I am coming 他问我来不来 
⑤ (despite being, despite the possibility that) 尽管 jǐnguǎn it's good, if a bit expensive 这虽然有点儿贵，但还不错 it's interesting, if nothing else 起码它很有趣 a correct if conventional reaction 常规但却是正确的反应 if it takes me all night, I'll do it 哪怕这件事要花我一晚上的时间，我也会去做 I don't care if he is married 即使他结婚了我也不在乎 
⑥ (and perhaps not) 即便 jíbiàn he has few, if any, supporters 他的支持者即便有也寥寥无几 
⑦ (expressing minor point) 要说 yào shuō (expressing opinion) 如果 rúguǒ if she has any weakness, it is … 要说她有什么弱点，那就是… if you don't mind my saying so, … 如果你不介意我这么说的话，… if you ask me, … 依我看，… 
⑧ (in polite requests) [表示请求]if you'll just sign here 请在这儿签字 if I could interrupt … 请容许我打断一下… 
⑨ (expressing surprise) if it isn't Frank! 那不是弗兰克吗！ nà bùshi Fúlánkè ma ！ 
B.  noun colloquial 不确定的情况 bù quèdìng de qíngkuàng it's a big if 这是个很大的疑问 there are too many ifs 有太多的不确定因素 ifs and buts 不确定因素 I don't want any ifs and buts about it 不要找借口 
C.  if anything adverb phrase 
① (speaking tentatively) [用于试探性地表达观点]he's like his father, if anything 如果说像谁的话，他像他的父亲 
② (saying the opposite is true) 恰恰相反 qiàqià xiāngfǎn she's not thin: if anything, she's plump 她不瘦，其实她挺丰满 
D.  if not 
① conjunction phrase (or else) 否则 fǒuzé are you ready? if not, I'm leaving 你准备好了吗？要不然我就走了 
② adverb phrase (maybe even) 甚至 shènzhì hundreds, if not thousands 几百，甚至几千 come tomorrow, if not sooner 明天就过来吧，早点更好 
E.  if only conjunction phrase 
① (expressing wish) 但愿 dànyuàn if only I were rich! 但愿我很有钱！ if only I'd listened to you! 要是我听了你的话就好了！ 
② (for no other reason than) 只是 zhǐshì don't go, if only for my sake 别走，就算是给我面子 if only because … 只是因为… 
if 
if

▶conjunction
1 introducing a conditional clause. 
• on the condition or supposition that; in the event that: if you have a complaint, write to the director 
if you like, I'll put in a word for you. 
• (with past tense) introducing a hypothetical situation: if you had stayed, this would never have happened. 
• whenever; every time: if I go out, she gets nasty.
2 despite the possibility that; no matter whether: if it takes me seven years, I shall do it.
3 (often used in indirect questions) whether: he asked if we would like some coffee 
see if you can track it down.
4 [with modal] expressing a polite request: if I could trouble you for your names? 
if you wouldn't mind giving him a message?
5 expressing an opinion: that's an awfully long walk, if you don't mind my saying so 
if you ask me, he's in love.
6 expressing surprise or regret: well, if it isn't Frank! 
if I could just be left alone.
7 with implied reservation. 
• and perhaps not: the new leaders have little if any control. 
• used to admit something as being possible but regarded as relatively insignificant: if there was any weakness, it was naiveté 
so what if he did? 
• despite being (used before an adjective or adverb to introduce a contrast): she was honest, if a little brutal. 
▶noun a condition or supposition: there are so many ifs and buts in the policy. 
PHRASES
if and only if used to introduce a condition that is necessary as well as sufficient: witches are real if and only if there are criteria for identifying witches. if and when at a future time (should it arise): if and when the film gets the green light, be sure you've read the book first. if anything used to suggest tentatively that something may be the case (often the opposite of something previously implied): I haven't made much of this—if anything, I've played it down. if I were you used to accompany a piece of advice: I would go to see him if I were you. if not perhaps even (used to introduce a more extreme term than one first mentioned): hundreds if not thousands of germs. if only
1 even if for no other reason than: Willy would have to tell George more, if only to keep him from pestering.
2 used to express a wish, especially regretfully: if only I had listened to you. if so if that is the case.ORIGIN Old English gif, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch of and German ob . usage: If and whether are more or less interchangeable in sentences like I'll see if he left an address and I'll see whether he left an address, although whether is generally regarded as more formal and suitable for written use. But, although if and whether are often interchangeable, a distinction worth noting is that if is also used in conditional constructions and whether in expressing an alternative or possibility. Thus, tell me if you're going to be in town next week could be strictly interpreted as ‘you need not reply if you are not going to be in town,’ whereas tell me whether you're going to be in town next week clearly means ‘a reply is desired one way or the other.’
