ill 
BrE ɪl, AmE ɪl 

A.  adjective 
① (having particular illness) 有病的 yǒubìng de to fall ill 生病 to be taken ill 病倒 she's ill with flu 她得了流感 terminally ill patients 病入膏肓的人 
② (unwell) 不舒服的 bù shūfu de to feel ill 感到不舒服 to look ill 气色不好 
③ (harmful, hostile) 坏的 huài de to suffer no ill effects 未受不良影响 it's an ill wind (that blows nobody any good) proverb 害于此者利于彼 
B.  adverb formal (scarcely) 几乎不 jīhū bù it ill becomes them to criticize us 他们无权批评我们 he ill deserves your praise 他不值得你表扬 
C.  noun 
① Uncountable(misfortune) 厄运 èyùn to wish [somebody] ill 希望某人倒霉 for good or ill 不论好坏 
② Countable(problem) 问题 wèntí the ills of city life/old age 城市生活的种种弊病/老年的种种苦恼 
D.  noun plural the ill 病人 bìngrén 
ill 
il

▶adjective
1 not in full health; sick: her daughter is seriously ill 
[with submodifier] : a terminally ill patient.
2 [attributive] poor in quality: ill judgment dogs the unsuccessful. 
• harmful: she had a cup of the same wine and suffered no ill effects. 
• hostile: it did give rise to a lot of ill feelings. 
• (especially of fortune) not favorable: no one less deserved such ill fortune than McStay. 
▶adverb
1 [usually in combination] badly, wrongly, or imperfectly: some of his premises seem ill-chosen 
it ill becomes one so beautiful to be gloomy. 
• unfavorably or unpropitiously: something which boded ill for unwary golfers.
2 only with difficulty; hardly: she could ill afford the cost of new curtains. 
▶noun
1 (as plural noun the ill) people who are ill: a day center for the mentally ill.
2 (usually ills) a problem or misfortune: a lengthy work on the ills of society. 
• evil; harm: how could I wish him ill? 
PHRASES
ill at ease 
ˌil əd ˈēz 
uncomfortable or embarrassed. speak (or think) ill of say (or think) something critical about.ORIGIN Middle English (in the senses ‘wicked,’ ‘malevolent,’ ‘harmful,’ and ‘difficult’): from Old Norse illr ‘evil, difficult,’ of unknown origin. usage: On the punctuation of ill in compound adjectives, see usage at well1, as the same rules apply.
