image 
BrE ˈɪmɪdʒ, AmE ˈɪmɪdʒ 
A. noun 
① (conception) 印象 yìnxiàng (mental picture) 想象 xiǎngxiàng (notion) 概念 gàiniàn the popular image of life in the north 对北方生活的普遍印象 a preconceived image of [something] 对某物的先入之见 
② Television, Photography, Computing 图像 túxiàng the moving image 动态影像 
③ (optical appearance) 图像 túxiàng microscopic images 显微图像 
④ (carved representation) 雕像 diāoxiàng ; (moulded representation) 塑像 sùxiàng a wooden image of Christ 木雕基督像 
⑤ (public perception) 形象 xíngxiàng (epitome) 典型 diǎnxíng to project/promote/improve a public image 树立/提升/改善公众形象 the image of the successful working mother 成功职业母亲的典型 
⑥ Literature (simile, metaphor) 意象 yìxiàng 
⑦ (likeness of a person) 酷似的人 kùsì de rén (likeness of a thing) 酷似的物 kùsì de wù God created man in his own image 上帝按照自己的模样创造了人 he is the (spitting) image of you 他长得酷似你 
⑧ (portrayal) 生动描述 shēngdòng miáoshù the author creates a haunting image of the American war in Vietnam 作者把美国越战塑造得可怕且难以忘却 
B.  transitive verb 塑造…的形象 sùzào… de xíngxiàng 
image 
▶noun
1 an image of St. Bartholomew: likeness, resemblance; depiction, portrayal, representation; statue, statuette, sculpture, bust, effigy; painting, picture, portrait, drawing, sketch.
2 images of the planet Neptune: picture, photograph, snapshot, photo.
3 he contemplated his image in the mirror: reflection, mirror image, likeness.
4 the image of this country as democratic: conception, impression, idea, perception, notion; mental picture, vision; character, reputation; appearance, semblance.
5 biblical images: simile, metaphor, metonymy; figure of speech, trope, turn of phrase; imagery.
6 his heartthrob image: public perception, persona, profile, reputation, stature, standing; face, front, facade, mask, guise.
7 I'm the image of my grandfather: double, living image, look-alike, clone, copy, twin, duplicate, exact likeness, mirror image, doppelgänger; informal spitting image, dead ringer, carbon copy; archaic similitude.
8 a graven image: idol, icon, fetish, totem.
▶verb she imaged imposing castles: envisage, envision, imagine, picture, see in one's mind's eye.
WORD LINKS
ice iconography the study of imagesWord Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD See emblem .These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
