import 
A.  /BrE ˈɪmpɔːt, AmE ˈɪmˌpɔrt
noun 
① CountableBusn (act of importing) 进口 jìnkǒu (item of merchandise imported) 进口货物 jìnkǒu huòwù (service) 输入劳务 shūrù láowù the volume/level of imports 进口量/进口水平 import surplus 入超 import surcharge 进口附加税 import quota 输入限额 
② Countable(cultural borrowing) 文化输入物 wénhuà shūrùwù [如词语、观念等]
③ Uncountableformal (meaning) 含义 hányì the import of [something]; 某事的含义 
④ Uncountableformal (importance) 重要性 zhòngyàoxìng of no (great) political import 政治上不（很）重要的 to be of import to [something]; 对某事重要 
B.  /BrE ɪmˈpɔːt, ˈɪmpɔːt, AmE ɪmˈpɔrt
transitive verb 
① Busn 进口 jìnkǒu ‹goods, services›
② (introduce) 引进 yǐnjìn ‹word, ideas›
③ Computing 输入 shūrù ‹data, file›
import 
▶verb 
imˈpôrt 
[with object]
1 bring (goods or services) into a country from abroad for sale: Japan's reluctance to import more cars. 
• introduce (an idea) from a different place or context: new beliefs were often imported by sailors. 
• Computing transfer (data) into a file or document.
2 archaic indicate or signify: having thus seen, what is imported in a Man's trusting his Heart. 
• express or make known: [with clause] : they passed a resolution importing that they relied on His Majesty's gracious promise. 
▶noun 
ˈimˌpôrt 

1 (usually imports) a commodity, article, or service brought in from abroad for sale. 
• (imports) sales of goods or services brought in from abroad, or the revenue from such sales: this surplus pushes up the yen, which ought to boost imports. 
• the action or process of importing goods or services: the import of live cattle from Canada.
2 [in singular] the meaning or significance of something, especially when not directly stated: the import of her message is clear. 
• great significance; importance: pronouncements of world-shaking import. DERIVATIVES importable 
imˈpôrdəb(ə)l 
adjectiveORIGIN late Middle English (in the sense ‘signify’): from Latin importare ‘bring in’ (in medieval Latin ‘imply, mean, be of consequence’), from in- ‘in’ + portare ‘carry.’
