impression 
BrE ɪmˈprɛʃ(ə)n, AmE ɪmˈprɛʃən 
noun 
① (impact, perception) 印象 yìnxiàng to make a good/bad impression (on [somebody]) （给某人）留下好/坏印象 to make or create a good impression at (the) interview 面试时给人留下好印象 his singing made quite an impression on us 他的演唱给我们留下了深刻印象 what is your impression of the new secretary? 你对新秘书印象如何？ she gives an impression of vulnerability 她给人的印象是弱不禁风 first impressions are often deceptive 第一印象往往靠不住 
② (vague idea or belief) 感觉 gǎnjué she had the impression that she had seen him before 她觉得以前见过他 to be under the impression that … 以为… 
③ (imitation) 滑稽模仿 huájī mófǎng to do impressions/an impression (of [somebody]/[something]); （对某人/某事物）进行滑稽模仿 
④ (representation) 印象画 yìnxiànghuà an artist's impression of the attacker 画家为袭击者画的印象画 
⑤ (difference) 效果 xiàoguǒ the floor was too dirty for the mop to make much (of an) impression 地板太脏了，用拖把拖不干净 
⑥ (of foot, finger, seal, etc.) 压痕 yāhén to leave an impression in the mud 在泥地上留下痕迹 
⑦ Printing (unaltered reprint) 重印本 chóngyìnběn (process) 重印 chóngyìn (total number of copies) 印数 yìnshù 
impression 
imˈpreSHən

▶noun
1 an idea, feeling, or opinion about something or someone, especially one formed without conscious thought or on the basis of little evidence: his first impressions of Manchester were very positive 
they give the impression that all is sweetness and light. 
• an effect produced on someone: her courtesy and quick wit had made a good impression. 
• a difference made by the action or presence of someone or something: the floor was too dirty for the mop to make much impression.
2 an imitation of a person or thing, especially one done to entertain: he did an impression of Frank Sinatra. 
• a graphic or pictorial representation of someone or something: the police have issued an artist's impression of the attacker.
3 a mark impressed on a surface by something: the impression of his body on the leaves. 
• Dentistry a negative copy of the teeth or mouth made by pressing them into a soft substance.
4 the printing of a number of copies of a book, periodical, or picture for issue at one time. 
• [usually with adjective] a particular printed version of a book or other publication, especially one reprinted from existing type, plates, or film with no or only minor alteration. Compare with edition. 
• a print taken from an engraving.
5 an instance of a pop-up or other Web advertisement being seen on computer users' screens. 
PHRASES
under the impression that believing, mistakenly or on the basis of little evidence, that something is the case: he was under the impression that they had become friends.DERIVATIVES impressional 
-SHənl 
adjectiveORIGIN late Middle English: via Old French from Latin impressio(n-), from impress- ‘pressed in,’ from the verb imprimere (see imprint) .
