in 
BrE ɪn, AmE ɪn 

A.  preposition 
① (within enclosed space) 在…里 zài… li (within flat space) 在…上 zài… shang (within sth. abstract) 在…中 zài… zhōng in the dictionary/newspaper/film 在词典里/报纸上/电影中 in bed/the street 在床上/街上 in a group/collection 在团队/收藏品中 in the city 在市内 in China 在中国 a country in Africa 一个非洲国家 there are 31 days in May 5月有31天 there are 100 centimetres in a metre 1米等于100厘米 
② (into) 到…里 dào… li to put [something] in one's pocket 把某物放入口袋 to dip a brush in paint 把刷子蘸进油漆 
③ (within conditions of) 在…之中 zài… zhī zhōng (indicating state of) 处于…状态 chǔyú… zhuàngtài in the darkness 在黑暗之中 to go out in the rain 冒雨出去 to be in love 恋爱 to be in full bloom 盛开 to be in good repair 状况良好 to put things in order 把东西收拾整齐 
④ (indicating occupation) 从事 cóngshì to be in the army 当兵 to be in politics 从政 to work in insurance 从事保险工作 
⑤ (during) 在…期间 zài… qījiān (within period of) 在…之内 zài… zhī nèi in spring/May 在春天/5月份 in 1987/the twenties 在1987年/20年代 at four in the morning 在凌晨4点钟 to do [something] in two weeks 在两个星期之内完成某事 in a matter of seconds 刹那间 
⑥ (at end of) 在…之后 zài… zhīhòu to be back in half an hour 半个小时后回来 in a week or week's time 一周以后 
⑦ (for) 有…之久 yǒu… zhī jiǔ (since) 自…以来 zì… yǐlái it hasn't rained in weeks 已经有好几个星期没有下雨了 it's the first letter I've had in ten days 这是我10天来收到的第一封信 
⑧ (amidst) 在…过程中 zài… guòchéng zhōng in the confusion, he escaped 他趁乱逃跑了 in his hurry he forgot his keys 他匆忙之间忘了钥匙 
⑨ (present or inherent in) 存在于 cúnzài yú I see his father in him 我在他身上看到了他父亲的影子 he hasn't got it in him to succeed 他没有成功的气质 there's something in what he says 他所说的话有点道理 we lost a friend in Jim 我们失去了吉姆这位朋友 
⑩ (referring to colour, material) available in black/several colours ［表示颜色、材质] 有黑色/几种颜色供挑选 yǒu hēisè/jǐ zhǒng yánsè gōng tiāoxuǎn bags in leather and canvas 用皮革和帆布做成的包 
⑪ (indicating size) [表示尺寸]in size
16 16号的 in a smaller/larger size Clothing 尺码更小/更大的 (in printing, manufacturing) 规格更小/更大的 
⑫ (wearing) 穿着 chuānzhe ‹jeans›in a hat 戴着帽子的 men in uniform 身穿制服的男人 to be dressed in black 穿着黑色的衣服 
⑬ (by means of, through the medium of) 以 yǐ to write in pencil 用铅笔书写 to pay in cash 用现金支付 to speak in German 说德语 a book in Chinese 一本中文书 peaches in brandy 用白兰地酒拌的桃子 in A major 用A大调 to speak in a high voice 高声说话 
⑭ (as regards) 在…方面 zài… fāngmiàn an expert/a class in physics 物理专家/物理课 to be rich/lacking in [something] 富含/缺乏某物
10 cm in length 长10厘米 equal in weight 重量相等 
⑮ (by) 正当… zhèngdāng… in doing [something]; 正当做某事的时候 in trying to save the child … 在试图营救那孩子的时候… in doing so 通过这么做 
⑯ (indicating range, age) 在…范围内 zài… fànwéi nèi to be the tallest building in the world 是世界上最高的建筑物 to be in the thirties «temperature» 在30多度 to be in one's twenties 20多岁 
⑰ (by units of) 按 àn in rows of
3 3个一排地 in bundles 按束 what is it in centimetres? 按厘米算是多少？ 
⑱ (in arrangement of) in a circle ［表示形状或组合] 成环状 chéng huánzhuàng to cut [something] in three 把某物切成三部分 bǎ mǒu wù qiēchéng sān bùfen a novel in four parts 由四部分组成的小说 
⑲ (in ratios) [表示比率]a gradient of
1 in
4 1比4的倾斜度 a one in five chance 五分之一的机会 a tax of 22 pence in the pound 每英镑22便士的税率 
⑳ BrE (approximately within) [表示约数]in the or their hundreds/thousands 数以百计/千计 
B.  adverb 
① (into) 进入 jìnrù please come in 请进 to ask or invite [somebody] in 请某人进来 to fall in 掉进去 to stir or blend [something] in 掺入某物 
② (inside) 在里面 zài lǐmian coffee with milk in 加了牛奶的咖啡 
③ (at home) 在家 zàijiā to be in 在家 zàijiā to have an evening in 在家度过一个夜晚 
④ (at work) 在上班 zài shàngbān to come in early 很早就来上班 to come in two days a week 每周来上两天班 
⑤ figurative colloquial (included) to be in on [something] 了解 ‹secret› 参与 cānyù ‹plan›I wasn't in on it 我对此一无所知 to be in at the start 出现在起跑线 to be (well) in with [somebody] (friendly) 与某人（十分）友好 (for illicit purposes) 与某人勾结（甚深） 
⑥ figurative colloquial (about to experience) to be in for [something] 将经受某事 jiāng jīngshòu mǒu shì to be in for a shock/surprise 即将感到震惊/吃惊 jíjiāng gǎndào zhènjīng/chījīng to be in for a storm 将要遭遇暴风雨 jiāngyào zāoyù bàofēngyǔ you're in for a great time 你马上就会玩得很开心 
⑦ (in prison) 在监狱 zài jiānyù to be in for murder 因犯谋杀罪而被关押 
⑧ (in hospital) 住院 zhùyuàn to be in for [something]; 因患某病而住院 she's in for a biopsy 她住院做活组织切片检查 
⑨ (arrived) to be in (at six) «train, bus» （6点钟）到站 «ferry» （6点钟）到码头 (6 diǎn zhōng)dào mǎtou 
⑩ (at high point) to be in; «sea» 涨潮 zhǎngcháo when the tide is in 涨潮时 zhǎngcháo shí 
⑪ Sport (within line) «ball, shot» 在界内 zài jiè nèi (batting) «team, player» 击球 jīqiú 
⑫ (gathered) 收获 shōuhuò the harvest/wheat is in 庄稼/小麦收割了 
⑬ (available) 有储备 yǒu chǔbèi we don't have any in 我们一点储备也没有 to get [something] in 准备某物 
⑭ (submitted) 交来 jiāolái to be handed in «application» 被提交 homework has to be in tomorrow 明天必须交作业 
⑮ (in power) 当权 dāngquán how long have Labour been in? 工党当政有多长时间了？ 
C.  adjective colloquial 流行的 liúxíng de short skirts are in again 短裙又流行起来了 to be the in thing/colour 很时髦/是流行色 
D.  nouncolloquial 
① (access) 途径 tújìng an in to [something] 获取某物的门路 
② (influence) 影响 yǐngxiǎng to have an in with [somebody] 能支配某人 
E.  in and out preposition phrase 进进出出 jìnjìnchūchū to be in and out of prison all one's life 一辈子进出监狱 to be in and out of hospital a great deal 成为医院里的常客 to weave in and out of 来回穿行于 ‹traffic›
F.  in that conjunction phrase formal 由于 yóuyú I'm fortunate in that … 我很幸运，因为… 
G.  ins noun plural colloquial the ins and outs (of [something]) （某事的）详情 (mǒu shì de)xiángqíng to know the ins and outs of a job 了解工作的全部细节 
in 
in

▶preposition
1 expressing the situation of something that is or appears to be enclosed or surrounded by something else: living in Deep River 
dressed in their Sunday best 
soak it in warm soapy water 
she saw it in the rearview mirror. 
• expressing motion with the result that something ends up within or surrounded by something else: don't put dye in the bathtub 
he got in his car and drove off.
2 expressing a period of time during which an event takes place or a situation remains the case: they met in 1885 
at one o'clock in the morning 
I hadn't seen him in years.
3 expressing the length of time before a future event is expected to take place: I'll see you in fifteen minutes.
4 (often followed by a noun without a determiner) expressing a state or condition: to be in love 
I've got to put my affairs in order 
a woman in her thirties 
laid out in a straight line. 
• indicating the quality or aspect with respect to which a judgment is made: no discernible difference in quality.
5 expressing inclusion or involvement: I read it in a book 
acting in a film.
6 indicating someone's occupation or profession: she works in publishing.
7 indicating the language or medium used: say it in Polish 
put it in writing. 
• indicating the key in which a piece of music is written: Mozart's Piano Concerto in E flat.
8 [with verbal noun] as an integral part of (an activity): in planning public expenditure it is better to be prudent. 
▶adverb
1 expressing movement with the result that someone or something becomes enclosed or surrounded by something else: come in 
bring it in 
presently the admiral breezed in.
2 expressing the situation of being enclosed or surrounded by something: we were locked in.
3 expressing arrival at a destination: the train got in very late.
4 (of the tide) rising or at its highest level.
5 Baseball (of an infielder or outfielder) playing closer to home plate than usual: looking for a force, they brought the infield in. 
• (of a pitch) very close to the batter: he threw a fastball in and up a little. 
▶adjective
1 [predicative] (of a person) present at one's home or office: we knocked at the door but there was no one in.
2 informal fashionable: pastels and light colors are in this year 
the in thing to do.
3 [predicative] (of the ball in tennis and similar games) landing within the designated playing area. 
▶noun a position of influence: he would ensure an in with the nominee. 
PHRASES
be in for have good reason to expect (typically something unpleasant): it looks as if we're in for a storm. 
• (be in for it) have good reason to expect trouble or retribution. have (got) it in for see have. in all see all. in and out of being a frequent visitor to (a house) or frequent inmate of (an institution): he was in and out of jail for most of his twenties. in on privy to (a secret): they were in on the conspiracy. in so far as see insofar. in that for the reason that (used to specify the respect in which a statement is true): I was fortunate in that I had friends. in with informal enjoying friendly relations with: I was in demand because I was in with the right people. the ins and outs informal all the details (of something).ORIGIN Old English in (preposition), inn, inne (adverb), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch and German in (preposition), German ein (adverb), from an Indo-European root shared by Latin in and Greek en .
