influence 
BrE ˈɪnflʊəns, AmE ˈɪnflʊəns 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(power to affect) 影响力 yǐngxiǎnglì to be under the influence of [somebody]/[something]; 受到某人/某事物的影响 to have a good/bad influence (on [somebody]); （对某人）有好/坏影响 his parents no longer have any real influence over him 他的父母对他不再有任何真正的约束力了 the young king was under the influence of his chief minister 这位年轻的国王受到总理大臣的控制 under the influence colloquial 喝醉酒的 to drive under the influence 醉酒驾车 
② Countable(sb. or sth. that exercises power) 影响 yǐngxiǎng those friends are a bad influence on her 那些朋友对她有负面影响 we are subject to many influences in life 我们一生中受到诸多因素的影响 
③ Uncountable(ability to obtain favourable treatment) 势力 shìlì he used his influence to get his son the position 他凭借权势为儿子谋得这一职位 she has great influence with the manager 她能够对经理施加巨大影响 
④ Countable and uncountable(of climate, magnetic field, gravity, planet) 作用 zuòyòng the influence of the moon on the tides 月球对潮汐的作用 
B.  transitive verb 影响 yǐngxiǎng to influence [somebody] in his choice/decision/opinion 影响某人的选择/决定/意见 what on earth influenced you to behave in that way? 究竟是什么使你作出那样的举动？ 
influence 
ˈinflo͝oəns

▶noun the capacity to have an effect on the character, development, or behavior of someone or something, or the effect itself: the influence of television violence 
I was still under the influence of my parents 
their friends are having a bad influence on them. 
• the power to shape policy or ensure favorable treatment from someone, especially through status, contacts, or wealth: the institute has considerable influence with teachers. 
• a person or thing with the capacity or power to have an effect on someone or something: Frank was a good influence on her. 
• Physics, archaic electrical or magnetic induction. 
▶verb [with object] have an influence on: social forces influencing criminal behavior. 
PHRASES
under the influence informal affected by alcoholic drink; drunk: he was charged with driving under the influence.DERIVATIVES influenceable adjective. influencer nounORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French, or from medieval Latin influentia ‘inflow,’ from Latin influere, from in- ‘into’ + fluere ‘to flow.’ The word originally had the general sense ‘an influx, flowing matter,’ also specifically (in astrology) ‘the flowing in of ethereal fluid (affecting human destiny).’ The sense ‘imperceptible or indirect action exerted to cause changes’ was established in Scholastic Latin by the 13th century, but not recorded in English until the late 16th century.
