innocent 
BrE ˈɪnəs(ə)nt, AmE ˈɪnəsənt 

A.  adjective 
① Law (not guilty) 无罪的 wúzuì de (to be) innocent of a crime; （是）无罪的 innocent in the eyes of the law 从法律的角度看是清白的 
② (blameless) 无辜的 wúgū de ‹victim, bystander›
③ (innocuous) 无害的 wúhài de ‹pastime, mistake›; 无恶意的 wúèyì de ‹question, remark›
④ (naive) 天真无邪的 tiānzhēn wúxié de ‹face, expression›to put on an innocent air 故作天真 
B.  noun 天真无邪的人 tiānzhēn wúxié de rén they're no innocents! 他们并不幼稚！ 
innocent 
▶adjective
1 he was entirely innocent: guiltless, blameless, in the clear, unimpeachable, irreproachable, above suspicion, faultless; honorable, honest, upright, law-abiding; informal squeaky clean. ANTONYMS guilty.
2 innocent fun: harmless, benign, innocuous, safe, inoffensive. ANTONYMS harmful.
3 Alcott's depiction of innocent girls: virtuous, pure, moral, decent, righteous, upright, wholesome; demure, modest, chaste, virginal; impeccable, spotless, sinless, unsullied, incorrupt, undefiled; informal squeaky clean, lily-white, pure as the driven snow. ANTONYMS sinful.
4 she is innocent of guile: free from, without, lacking (in), clear of, ignorant of, unaware of, untouched by.
5 at the innocent age of twelve: naive, ingenuous, trusting, credulous, unsuspicious, unwary, unguarded; impressionable, gullible, easily led; inexperienced, unworldly, unsophisticated, green; simple, artless, guileless, wide-eyed; informal wet behind the ears, born yesterday. ANTONYMS worldly, seasoned.
▶noun an innocent in a strange land: ingénue, unworldly person; child, baby, babe; novice; informal greenhorn; literary babe in arms.
USAGE
innocent Innocent properly means ‘harmless,’ but it has long been extended in general language to mean ‘not guilty.’ The jury (or judge) in a criminal trial does not, strictly speaking, find a defendant ‘innocent.’ Rather, a defendant may be guilty or not guilty of the charges brought. In common use, however, owing perhaps to the concept of the presumption of innocence, which instructs a jury to consider a defendant free of wrongdoing until proven guilty on the basis of evidence, ‘not guilty’ and ‘innocent’ have come to be thought of as synonymous.Usage notes show additional guidance on finer points of English usage.
