inside 
A.  /BrE ɪnˈsʌɪd, AmE ɪnˈsaɪd
noun 
① (inner part) 里面 lǐmian the inside of the car 汽车内部 to be locked on or from the inside «door, house» 从里面锁上 
② (inner surface of box, window, leg etc.) 内侧 nèicè on the inside 在内侧 the inside as well as the outside 内外两侧 the inside of his arm 他的胳膊内侧 
③ (of road) [靠近路边的] 慢车道 mànchēdào 
④ Sport (of track) 内圈 nèiquān on the inside 在内圈上 
⑤ (of pavement) [离马路较远的] 人行道内侧 rénxíngdào nèicè 
⑥ figurative (of organization) 内幕 nèimù to know an organization from the inside 了解某个组织的内幕 someone on the inside 内部人士 our sources on the inside 我们的内线 
⑦ figurative colloquial (prison) 监狱 jiānyù life on the inside 监狱里的生活 
B.  /BrE ɪnˈsʌɪd, AmE ɪnˈsaɪd
preposition( also especially AmE inside of) 
① (within) 在…里 zài… li inside the box there is … 盒子里有… conditions inside the refugee camp 难民营里的条件 contacts inside the company 在公司内的熟人 inside China 在中国国内 
② (toward interior of) 到…里 dào… li put it inside the envelope 把它放入信封 
③ (behind) 在…后面 zài… hòumian to stand inside the gate 站在大门里面 
④ (within body) 在…体内 zài… tǐnèi (within mind) 在…内心 zài… nèixīn anger surged up inside me 我怒火中烧 
⑤ Sport 在…内侧 zài… nèicè to go or cut inside [somebody] 切到某人的内侧 
⑥ (under) 在…以内 zài… yǐnèi to be inside the speed limit 在限速范围内 inside an hour/a year 在不到一小时/一年的时间里 to be inside the world record 打破世界纪录 
C.  /BrE ˈɪnsʌɪd, AmE ˈɪnˌsaɪd, ɪnˈsaɪd
adjectiveattributive 
① (interior) 里面的 lǐmian de the inside pages of the paper 报纸的内页 
② figurative (first-hand) 第一手的 dìyīshǒu de ‹information›(within organization) 内部的 nèibù de an inside story/source 内情/内部信息来源 it was clearly an inside job 这显然是内部人干的 
D.  /BrE ɪnˈsʌɪd, AmE ɪnˈsaɪd
adverb 
① (within object, structure) 在里面 zài lǐmian she's inside 她在屋里 to wait inside 在里面等 to have [something] inside 里面有某物 
② (into object, structure) 到里面 dào lǐmian to go/come inside 进屋 to bring [something] inside 把某物拿进来 to look inside 往里看 
③ figurative (within organization) 在内部 zài nèibù to have someone inside 有内应 
④ (within body) 在体内 zài tǐnèi ; (within mind) 在内心 zài nèixīn to know [something] deep down inside 内心深处明白某事 
⑤ BrE colloquial (in prison) 在狱中 zài yù zhōng he's been inside 他坐过牢 to put [somebody] inside 将某人关进监狱 
E.  insides noun plural colloquial 内脏 nèizàng it upset his insides 这使他感到肠胃不适 my insides hurt 我肚子疼 
F.  inside out adverb phrase 里面朝外 lǐmian cháo wài to wear a T-shirt inside out 反穿着T恤衫 to blow an umbrella inside out «wind» 把雨伞吹翻 to turn [something] inside out (reverse) 把…翻过来 ‹coat, jacket› (ransack) 把…翻个底朝天 bǎ… fān gè dǐ cháo tiān ‹room, closet› (transform) 彻底改变 chèdǐ gǎibiàn ‹life›to know [somebody]/[something] inside out 彻底了解某人/某事物 to know one's subject inside out 对科目了如指掌 
inside 
▶noun
1 the inside of a volcano: interior, inner part; center, core, middle, heart. ANTONYMS exterior.
2 informal my insides are aching: stomach, gut, internal organs, bowels, intestines; informal belly, tummy, guts, innards, viscera.
▶adjective
1 his inside pocket: inner, interior, internal, innermost. ANTONYMS outer.
2 inside information: confidential, classified, restricted, privileged, private, secret, exclusive; informal hush-hush. ANTONYMS public.
▶adverb
1 she ushered me inside: indoors, within, in.
2 how do you feel inside? inwardly, within, secretly, privately, deep down, at heart, emotionally, intuitively, instinctively.
3 informal if I get caught again I'll be back inside: in prison, in jail, in custody; locked up, imprisoned, incarcerated; informal behind bars, doing time.
WORD LINKS
inside intra- forming words meaning ‘inside; within,’ such as intramural (‘situated or done within a building’)Word Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.
