interest 
BrE ˈɪnt(ə)rɪst, AmE ˈɪnt(ə)rəst 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(concern, curiosity) 兴趣 xìngqù to feel or take or have (an) interest in [somebody]/[something]; 对某人/某事物感兴趣 to show (an) interest in [somebody]/[something]/doing [something]; 对某人/某事物/做某事表现出兴趣 to arouse or provoke or stimulate interest 激起兴趣 she takes a great interest in her pupils 她非常关注自己的学生 with interest 有兴趣地 just for interest 仅仅是出于兴趣 to attract or catch [somebody's] interest; 吸引某人的注意 that is of no interest to me 我对那一点也不感兴趣 economic history holds no interest for me 我对经济史不感兴趣 
② Uncountable(quality arousing concern, curiosity) 趣味 qùwèi (power to hold attention) 引人关注的性质 yǐn rén guānzhù de xìngzhì suspense adds interest to a story 悬念可以增强故事的趣味 to be of public interest 为公众所关注 
③ Countable(pursuit, pastime) 爱好 àihào she has wide interests 她爱好广泛 
④ Countable(advantage, benefit) 利益 lìyì to look after or protect or safeguard one's (own) interests 保护自己的利益 to promote or further or advance one's (own) interests 促进自己的利益 to act in [somebody's] interest(s) 行事为某人着想 to have [somebody's] interests at heart 为某人的利益着想 in the interests of safety 为了安全 in the public interest 为了公众的利益 
⑤ Countable(financial stake) 权益 quányì business interests 企业股份 American interests in Europe 在欧洲的美国权益 he sold his interest in the company 他卖掉了自己在公司的股份 
⑥ Countable(personal connection) 利益关系 lìyì guānxì to declare one's interest 申明利益关系 I have an interest in this matter 这件事和我有利益关系 
⑦ UncountableFinance 利息 lìxī the monthly rate of interest 月利率 you will be charged interest at 10% 将按10％的利率征收利息 a loan with interest 有息贷款 to pay interest charges on a loan 支付贷款利息 
B.  interests noun plural (people engaged in the same business) 利益集团 lìyì jítuán powerful business interests 强大的企业集团 banking/landed interests 银行业者/土地所有者阶层 
C.  transitive verb 
① (excite curiosity of) 使感兴趣 shǐ gǎn xìngqù to interest oneself in [something]; 对某事物有兴趣 to interest [somebody] in [something]; 使某人对某事物产生兴趣 it may interest you to know or to learn that … 或许你有兴趣知道… 
② (arouse curiosity or desire in) 使愿意参与 shǐ yuànyì cānyù can I interest you in our latest computer? 我向您介绍一下我们最新的计算机好吗？ I tried to interest him in helping with the preparations 我试图让他来帮忙做准备工作 
③ formal (cause to give attention) 使关心 shǐ guānxīn the future of endangered species interests us all 我们大家都很关注濒危物种的未来 
interest 
ˈint(ə)rəst

▶noun
1 the state of wanting to know or learn about something or someone: she looked about her with interest. 
• (an interest in) a feeling of wanting to know or learn about (something): he developed an interest in art. 
• the quality of exciting curiosity or holding the attention: a tale full of interest. 
• a subject about which one is concerned or enthusiastic: my particular interest is twentieth-century poetry.
2 money paid regularly at a particular rate for the use of money lent, or for delaying the repayment of a debt: the monthly rate of interest 
[as modifier] : interest payments.
3 the advantage or benefit of a person or group: the merger is not contrary to the public interest 
we are acting in the best interests of our customers. 
• archaic the selfish pursuit of one's own welfare; self-interest.
4 a stake, share, or involvement in an undertaking, especially a financial one: holders of voting rights must disclose their interests 
he must have no personal interest in the outcome of the case. 
• a legal concern, title, or right in property: third parties having an interest in a building.
5 (usually interests) a group or organization having a specified common concern, especially in politics or business: the regulation of national interests in India, Brazil, and Africa. 
▶verb [with object] excite the curiosity or attention of (someone): I thought the book might interest Eric. 
• (interest someone in) cause someone to undertake or acquire (something): efforts were made to interest her in a purchase. 
PHRASES
declare an (or one's) interest make known one's financial interests in an undertaking before it is discussed. in the interests (or interest) of something for the benefit of: in the interests of security we are keeping the information confidential. of interest interesting: much of it is of interest to historians. with interest with interest charged or paid: loans that must be paid back with interest. 
• (of an action) reciprocated with more force or vigor than the original one: he may have a reputation for getting even, with interest.ORIGIN late Middle English (originally as interess): from Anglo-Norman French interesse, from Latin interesse ‘differ, be important,’ from inter- ‘between’ + esse ‘be.’ The -t was added partly by association with Old French interest ‘damage, loss,’ apparently from Latin interest ‘it is important.’ The original sense was ‘the possession of a share in or a right to something’; hence sense
4 of the noun. Sense
1 of the noun and the verb arose in the 18th century sense
2 of the noun was influenced by medieval Latin interesse ‘compensation for a debtor's defaulting.’
