iron 
BrE ˈʌɪən, AmE ˈaɪ(ə)rn 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(metal) 铁 tiě the iron and steel industry 钢铁工业 old/scrap iron 旧/废铁 to strike while the iron is hot figurative 趁热打铁 the iron had entered his soul figurative 他极端怨愤不平 a man of iron (determined) 意志坚强的人 (cruel) 冷酷的人 a will of iron 钢铁般的意志 before noun (made of iron) 铁制的 tiězhì de 
② Countable(for smoothing clothes) 熨斗 yùndǒu to run the iron over [something], to give [something] an iron; 熨烫某物 
③ Countable(tool) 铁器 tiěqì to have a lot of irons in the fire figurative 同时有许多事情要做 
④ Countable(in golf) 铁头球棒 tiětóu qiúbàng 
B.  irons noun plural History 镣铐 liàokào to put [somebody] in irons 给某人戴上镣铐 
C.  adjective 
① figurative (strong and determined) 刚强的 gāngqiáng de a man with an iron will 意志坚强的男子 
② figurative (harsh) 严酷的 yánkù de iron rule 暴虐的统治 
D.  transitive verb 熨烫 yùntàng 
E.  intransitive verb 熨平衣物 yùnpíng yīwù PHRASAL VERB iron out transitive verb[iron out something], [iron something out] 
① literal (remove) 熨平 yùnpíng ‹creases, wrinkles›
② figurative (smooth over) 解决 jiějué ‹problem, difficulty›; 消除 xiāochú ‹misunderstanding›
iron 
ˈī(ə)rn

▶noun
1 a strong, hard magnetic silvery-gray metal, the chemical element of atomic number 26, much used as a material for construction and manufacturing, especially in the form of steel. (Symbol: Fe) 
• compounds of iron, especially as a component of the diet: serve liver as it's a good source of iron 
[as modifier] : how are your iron levels? 
• used figuratively as a symbol or type of firmness, strength, or resistance: her father had a will of iron 
[as modifier] : the iron grip of religion on minority cultures. Iron is widely distributed as ores such as hematite, magnetite, and siderite, and the earth's core is believed to consist largely of metallic iron and nickel. Besides steel, other important forms of the metal are cast iron and wrought iron. Chemically a transition element, iron is a constituent of some biological molecules, notably hemoglobin.
2 a tool or implement now or originally made of iron: a caulking iron. 
• (irons) fetters or handcuffs. 
• informal US a handgun.
3 a handheld implement with a flat steel base that is heated (typically with electricity) to smooth clothes, sheets, etc.
4 a golf club with a metal head (typically with a numeral indicating the degree to which the head is angled in order to loft the ball).
5 Astronomy (also iron meteorite) a meteorite containing a high proportion of iron. 
▶verb [with object] smooth (clothes, sheets, etc.) with an iron. 
PHRASES
have many (or other) irons in the fire have many (or a range of) options or courses of action available or be involved in many activities or commitments at the same time. in irons
1 having the feet or hands fettered.
2 (of a sailing vessel) stalled head to wind and unable to come about or tack either way. an iron fist (or hand) in a velvet glove firmness or ruthlessness cloaked in outward gentleness.PHRASAL VERBS iron something out solve or settle difficulties or problems: they had ironed out their differences.DERIVATIVES ironer 
ˈī(ə)rnər 
noun. ironlike 
-ˌlīk 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English īren, īsen, īsern, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch ijzer and German Eisen, and probably ultimately from Celtic.
