issue 
BrE ˈɪʃuː, ˈɪsjuː, AmE ˈɪʃu 
A. noun 
① Countable(point in question) 问题 wèntí a major political issue 重大的政治问题 she raised the issue of security 她提出了安全问题 that's not the issue 这不是问题所在 to face the issue 正视问题 to avoid or evade or dodge the issue 回避问题 to cloud or confuse the issue 混淆问题 to force the issue 迫使对该问题作出决定 to make an issue of [something] 对某事物小题大做 at issue 讨论中的 what he wants to do with the money is not at issue 他打算将这笔钱派什么用场不是讨论的要点 to take issue with [somebody]/[something] 向某人/对某事物提出异议 
② Countable(copy of newspaper, journal, magazine etc.) 期 qī the April issue of the magazine 杂志的四月号 
③ Uncountable(allocation) (of blankets, food, arms, uniforms, etc.) 分发 fēnfā (of passport, licence, credit card, etc.) 发放 fāfàng (of summons, writ, etc.) 发出 fāchū standard army-issue boots 制式军靴 
④ Countable(set of items that is allocated) 发行物 fāxíngwù the latest issue of shares 最新发行的股份 issues of food and blankets to the refugees 发给难民们的食品和毛毯 
⑤ Uncountable(distribution of stamps, coins, banknotes, shares) 发行 fāxíng 
⑥ UncountableLaw (progeny) 子女 zǐnǚ to die without issue 死后无子嗣 
B.  transitive verb 
① (allocate) 分发 fēnfā ‹blankets, food, arms, uniform›; 发放 fāfàng ‹passport, licence, credit card›; 发出 fāchū ‹summons, writ›to issue [something] to [somebody], to issue [somebody] with [something]; 把某物发给某人 we were issued with maps and compasses 我们配发了地图和指南针 
② (make public) 发布 fābù ‹instructions, proclamation›; 发出 fāchū ‹invitation, ultimatum, warning›; 发表 fābiǎo ‹statement, press release›
③ (release officially) 发行 fāxíng ‹stamps, coins, banknotes, shares›
④ (publish) 出版 chūbǎn 
C.  intransitive verb to issue from [something]; 从某处出来 cóng mǒu chù chūlai a stream of abuse issued from the kitchen 从厨房里传来的一连串辱骂声 
issue 
▶noun
1 the committee discussed the issue: matter, matter in question, question, point, point at issue, affair, case, subject, topic; problem, bone of contention.
2 the issue of a special stamp: issuing, publication, publishing, printing; circulation, distribution.
3 the latest issue of our magazine: edition, number, copy, installment, volume, publication.
4 Law she died without issue: offspring, descendants, heirs, successors, children, progeny, family; archaic seed, fruit (of one's loins).
5 an issue of water: discharge, emission, release, outflow, outflowing, secretion, emanation, exudation, effluence; technical efflux.
▶verb
1 the mayor issued a statement: send out, put out, release, deliver, publish, announce, pronounce, broadcast, communicate, circulate, distribute, disseminate, transmit.
2 the students were issued with new uniforms: supply, provide, furnish, arm, equip, fit out, rig out; British kit out; informal fix up.
3 the smell of onion issued from the kitchen: emanate, emerge, exude, flow (out/forth), pour (out/forth); be emitted.
4 large profits might issue from the deal: result from, follow, ensue from, stem from, spring (forth) from, arise from, proceed from, come (forth) from; be the result of, be brought on/about by, be produced by.
PHRASES
at issue at issue here is what constitutes ‘art’: in question, in dispute, under discussion, under consideration, for debate. take issue with we'll get nowhere if you have to take issue with everything that anybody says: disagree with, be in dispute with, be in contention with, be at variance with, be at odds with, argue with, quarrel with; challenge, dispute, (call into) question. REFLECTIONS Jean Strouseissues In a therapy-saturated culture, issues has come to mean ‘problems.’ It started out referring to neurotic problems, as in he's got father issues, or, not even requiring an adjective, she has issues, then devolved into the general: I'm late because I had parking issues. A New York Times article in January 2004 described a brown-headed cowbird that apparently can't sing and engage in visual courtship display at the same time as having multitasking issues. In the software industry, issues is a euphemism for ‘bugs’: rather than acknowledge a bug in one of its products, a company might say, this is a known issue.Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
