it 
BrE ɪt, AmE ɪt 

A.  pronoun 
① (thing, animal) 它 tā what is it? 这是什么东西？ where's the car? — it's in the garage 车在哪儿？──在车库里 
② (person) (of unspecified sex) who is it? 谁啊？ shuí ɑ ？ she hopes it'll be a boy 她希望是个男孩儿 it's me 是我 shì wǒ 
③ (fact, situation) 情况 qíngkuàng what is it? (occurrence) 出了什么事？ (problem) 怎么回事？ how was it? 怎么样了？ yes, I was home: what about it? 是的，我到家了，怎么啦？ to hear all about it 听说事情的全部情况 stop it! (doing sth.) 住手！ (saying sth.) 打住吧！ that's it (correct) 对啦 (the end) 就这样了 (the issue) 问题就在这里 (enough) 行了 this is it (feared event) 该来的就要来了 (awaited event) 终于来了 (main point) 正是这样 the best/worst of it is that … 好在/最糟糕的是… 
④ (things in general) [指一般情况]how's it going? colloquial 一切都好吗？ if it's convenient 如果方便的话 I like it here 我喜欢这里的环境 
⑤ (when referring to time, distance, weather) it's six o'clock/Friday ［指时间、距离或天气] 现在是6点/今天是星期五 xiànzài shì
6 diǎn/jīntiān shì xīngqīwǔ it's two miles to town 到城里有两英里 dào chéng li yǒu liǎng yīnglǐ it's raining 下雨了 xiàyǔ le 
⑥ (as anticipatory subject) it's no use shouting ［用作先行主语] 喊叫根本没用 hǎnjiào gēnběn méiyòng it appears that he is sleeping 看来他睡了 kànlái tā shuì le 
⑦ (for emphasis) ［表示强调］ it's Spain that he went to, not Portugal 他去的是西班牙，不是葡萄牙 
B.  nounUncountable
① Games 捉人者 zhuōrénzhě 
② colloquial 所需的素质 suǒ xū de sùzhì either you've got it or you haven't (talent) 你要么是好样的，要么一无是处 (sex appeal) 你要么很性感，要么没有吸引力 
it
1 
it

▶pronoun [third person singular]
1 used to refer to a thing previously mentioned or easily identified: a room with two beds in it 
this approach is refreshing because it breaks down barriers. 
• referring to an animal or child of unspecified sex: she was holding the baby, cradling it and smiling into its face. 
• referring to a fact or situation previously mentioned, known, or happening: stop it, you're hurting me.
2 used to identify a person: it's me 
it's a boy!
3 used in the normal subject position in statements about time, distance, or weather: it's half past five 
it was two miles to the island 
it is raining.
4 used in the normal subject or object position when a more specific subject or object is given later in the sentence: it is impossible to assess the problem 
she found it interesting to learn about their strategy.
5 [with clause] used to emphasize a following part of a sentence: it is the child who is the victim.
6 the situation or circumstances; things in general: no one can stay here—it's too dangerous now 
he would like to see you right away if it's convenient.
7 exactly what is needed or desired: they thought they were it 
you've either got it or you haven't.
8 (usually “it”) informal sex appeal: he's still got “it.” 
• sexual intercourse.
9 [attributive] (It) informal denoting a person or thing that is exceptionally fashionable, popular, or successful at a particular time: they were Hollywood's It couple 
a chef who worked in one of the ‘It’ restaurants in Copenhagen. [after It girl .]
10 (usually “it”) (in children's games) the player who has to catch the others. 
PHRASES
at it see at1. that's it
1 that is the main point or difficulty: “Is she going?” “That's just it—she can't make up her mind.”
2 that is enough or the end: okay, that's it, you've cried long enough. this is it
1 the expected event is about to happen: this is it—the big sale.
2 this is enough or the end: this is it, I'm going.
3 this is the main point or difficulty.ORIGIN Old English hit, neuter of he, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch het .
