jack 
BrE dʒak, AmE dʒæk 
noun 
① (for car wheel) 千斤顶 qiānjīndǐng 
② (in cards) J牌，杰克 J pái ， jiékè the jack of clubs/spades 梅花J/黑桃J 
③ (in bowling) 靶子球 bǎzi qiú [白色，较其他球小]
④ colloquial to be a jack of all trades (and master of none) 样样通，样样松 yàngyàng tōng ， yàngyàng sōng before you could say Jack Robinson 刹那间 chànàjiān I'm all right, Jack 老兄，我过得很好 ［表达一种自满自得的态度］lǎoxiōng ， wǒ guò de hěn hǎo every man jack 每个人 měi gè rén every man jack of them 他们中的每个人 tāmen zhōng de měi gè rén on one's jack BrE slang 孤零零地 gūlínglíng de → play 
C. 
① PHRASAL VERBS jack in transitive verb[jack in something], [jack something in] BrE colloquial 停止干 tíngzhǐ gàn ‹job, work›jack off intransitive verb AmE vulg 手淫 shǒuyín [常指男性]jack up transitive verb[jack up something], [jack something up] 
① (raise) 用千斤顶抬高 yòng qiānjīndǐng táigāo ‹vehicle›
② figurative colloquial (raise the level of) 提高 tígāo ‹taxes, prices, wages›
jack
1 
jak

▶noun
1 a device for lifting heavy objects, especially one for raising the axle of a motor vehicle off the ground so that a wheel can be changed or the underside inspected.jacks
2 a playing card bearing a representation of a soldier, page, or knave, normally ranking next below a queen.
3 a socket with two or more pairs of terminals, designed to receive a jack plug.
4 (jacks) a game played by tossing and catching small round pebbles or star-shaped pieces of metal or plastic. 
• (also jackstone) a small round pebble or star-shaped piece of metal used in the game of jacks.
5 in lawn bowling, the small ball at which the players aim.
6 (Jack) informal, chiefly US used as a form of address to a man whose name is not known. [familiar form of the given name John.] 
• North American informal a lumberjack. 
• archaic a steeplejack. 
• the figure of a man striking the bell on a clock.
7 a small version of a national flag flown at the bow of a vessel in harbor to indicate its nationality.
8 North American informal, dated money.
9 a device for turning a spit.
10 a part of the mechanism in a spinet or harpsichord that connects a key to its corresponding string and causes the string to be plucked when the key is pressed down.
11 a marine fish that is typically laterally compressed with a row of large spiky scales along each side. Jacks are important in many places as food or game fish. Also called pompano, scad. [originally a West Indian term.] [Family Carangidae (the jack family): many genera and numerous species. The jack family also includes the horse mackerel, pilotfish, kingfishes, and trevallies.]
12 the male of some animals, especially a merlin or an ass.
13 used in names of animals that are smaller than similar kinds, e.g., jacksnipe.
14 short for jackrabbit.
15 US informal short for jack shit. 
PHRASES
before one can say Jack Robinson informal very quickly or suddenly. every man jack informal, dated each and every person (used for emphasis): they're spies, every man jack of them. jack of all trades (and master of none) a person who can do many different types of work but who is not necessarily very competent at any of them.PHRASAL VERBS jack someone around North American informal cause someone inconvenience or problems, especially by acting unfairly or indecisively. jack in (or into) informal log into or connect up (a computer or electronic device).jack off vulgar slang masturbate. jack up informal inject oneself with a narcotic drug. jack something up raise something, especially a vehicle, with a jack. 
• informal increase something by a considerable amount: France jacked up its key bank interest rate.ORIGIN late Middle English: from Jack, nickname for the given name John. The term was used originally to denote an ordinary man ( sense 6), also a youth (mid 16th century), hence the ‘knave’ in cards and ‘male animal.’ The word also denoted various devices saving human labor, as though one had a helper ( sense 1, sense 3, sense 9, and sense 10, and in compounds such as jackhammer and jackknife); the general sense ‘laborer’ arose in the early 18th century and survives in cheapjack, lumberjack, steeplejack, etc. Since the mid 16th century a notion of ‘smallness’ has arisen, hence sense 4, sense 5, sense 7, and sense
13 .
