joke 
BrE dʒəʊk, AmE dʒoʊk 

A.  noun 
① (amusing story) 笑话 xiàohua a joke about [something]; 关于某事物的笑话 a bad joke literal 无聊的笑话 figurative 令人不快的情况 lìng rén bùkuài de qíngkuàng it's a private joke 这是两个人之间的笑话 to tell a joke 讲笑话 to make or crack a joke 说笑话 shuō xiàohua to make or crack a joke at [somebody's] expense 拿某人开玩笑 dirty jokes 下流的笑话 I don't get the joke 我没明白这个笑话 
② (laughing matter) 可笑之处 kěxiào zhī chù I only did/said it as or for a joke 我做那事/说那话只是开开玩笑 to make a joke of [something], to turn [something] into a joke; 拿某事当玩笑 to see the joke 领会可笑之处 the joke is that … 可笑的是… to be no joke 不是闹着玩的 it's no joke having noisy neighbours 邻居爱吵闹可是个大麻烦 to be or get beyond a joke 超出开玩笑的限度 
③ (prank) 玩笑 wánxiào to play a joke on [somebody]; 同某人开玩笑 be unable to take a joke 经不起开玩笑 to carry or take a joke too far 开玩笑过了头 the joke's on you colloquial 开玩笑开到自己身上 
④ colloquial (ridiculous person) 荒唐可笑的人 huāngtang kěxiào de rén (ridiculous thing) 荒唐可笑的事 huāngtang kěxiào de shì it's a joke! 真荒唐！ our boss is a joke! 我们的老板真荒唐！ 
⑤ (object of scorn, ridicule) 笑柄 xiàobǐng she is the joke of the neighbourhood 她成了邻居取笑的对象 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (make jokes) 说笑话 shuō xiàohua to joke with [somebody]; 和某人开玩笑 to joke about [something]; 拿某事物开玩笑 
② colloquial (not be serious) 说着玩 shuōzhe wán you must or have (got) to be joking! 你一定是说着玩的吧！ 
C.  transitive verb 
① (say as joke) 打趣地说 dǎqù de shuō 
② (not say seriously) 调侃说 tiáokǎn shuō she joked that she only loved him for his money 她调侃说她爱他只是因为他有钱 
joke 
jōk

▶noun a thing that someone says to cause amusement or laughter, especially a story with a funny punchline: she was in a mood to tell jokes. 
• a trick played on someone for fun. 
• [in singular] informal a person or thing that is ridiculously inadequate: the transportation system is a joke. 
▶verb [no object] make jokes; talk humorously or flippantly: she could laugh and joke with her colleagues 
[with direct speech] : “It's OK, we're not related,” she joked. 
• [with object] archaic poke fun at: he was pretending to joke his daughter. 
PHRASES
be no joke informal be a serious matter or difficult undertaking: trying to shop with three children in tow is no joke. can (or can't) take a joke be able (or unable) to receive humorous remarks or tricks in the spirit in which they are intended: if you can't take a joke, you should never have joined. the joke is on someone informal someone looks foolish, especially after trying to make someone else look so. make a joke of laugh or be humorous about (something that is not funny in itself).ORIGIN late 17th century (originally slang): perhaps from Latin jocus ‘jest, wordplay.’
