judgement, judgment 
BrE ˈdʒʌdʒm(ə)nt, AmE ˈdʒədʒmənt 
noun 
① Uncountable(discernment) 判断力 pànduànlì to have sound judgement 有正确的判断力 to lack judgement 缺乏判断力 a lack of judgement 判断力的不足 an error of judgement 判断错误 to use one's (own) judgement 发挥（自己的）判断力 he succeeded, more by luck than by judgement 他成功了，主要是靠运气而非判断力 
② Uncountable and countable(opinion) 看法 kànfa to make a judgement about [somebody]/[something]; 对某人/某事物作出评价 I think you made an unfair judgement of his character 我觉得你对他品格的评价不公正 to give one's judgement on [somebody]/[something]; 对某人/某事物给予评价 in my judgement, … 依我看，… my (personal) judgement is that …, it is my (personal) judgement that … 依我（个人）来看… to reserve judgement 暂时不作评论 to do [something] against one's better judgement 违心地做某事 who am I to pass judgement on her behaviour? 我有什么资格对她的行为说三道四呢？ to sit in judgement on or over [somebody]/[something]; 参加对某人/某事物的评判 
③ Uncountable and countableLaw 判决 pànjué the claimant obtained judgement in his favour 原告得到了有利于他的判决 to hand down or pronounce or pass judgement (on [somebody]); 宣布（对某人的）判决 the court has yet to pass judgement 法庭尚未宣布判决结果 the judge decided to reserve judgement on the case 法官决定暂不对本案作出判决 
④ Countableformal (punishment, retribution) 报应 bàoyìng some saw her sudden blindness as a judgement on her behaviour 有些人认为她眼睛突然失明是她所作所为的报应 divine judgement Religion 天谴 
judgment 
ˈjəjmənt 
(also judgement) 
▶noun
1 the ability to make considered decisions or come to sensible conclusions: an error of judgment 
that is not, in my judgment, the end of the matter. 
• an opinion or conclusion: they make subjective judgments about children's skills. 
• a decision of a court or judge: the Supreme Court upheld the judgment of the Alberta Court of Appeal.
2 a misfortune or calamity viewed as a divine punishment: the crash had been a judgment on the parents for wickedness. 
PHRASES
against one's better judgment contrary to what one believes to be wise or sensible. pass judgment (of a court or judge) give a decision concerning a defendant or legal matter: he passed judgment on the accused. 
• criticize or condemn someone from a position of assumed moral superiority. reserve judgment delay the process of judging or giving one's opinion. sit in judgment assume the right to judge someone, especially in a critical manner.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French jugement, from juger ‘to judge.’ usage: In British English, the normal spelling in general contexts is judgement. However, the spelling judgment is conventional in legal contexts, and standard in North American English.
