jump 
BrE dʒʌmp, AmE dʒəmp 
A. intransitive verb 
① (leap) 跳 tiào to jump over [something]; 翻越 ‹gate, fence, wall›to jump across [something]; 跨过 ‹ditch, gap, stream›to jump into [something]; 跳入 tiàorù ‹air, river, pit›to jump into bed with [somebody] colloquial 直接和某人上床 to jump on to [something]; 跳到…上 ‹roof, table, bus›to jump out of [something]; 跳出 tiàochū ‹bed, window, tower›to jump from [something]; 从…上跳下 ‹plane, car›to jump clear (of [something]) 逃离（某事物） I managed to jump clear of the oncoming truck 我跳到一边避开了后面开来的卡车 to jump for joy literal 高兴得手舞足蹈 figurative 欢欣鼓舞 huānxīn gǔwǔ to jump down [somebody's] throat colloquial 愤怒地反驳某人 go and jump in the lake or river!, go and take a running jump! colloquial dated 滚开！ to jump up and down literal 上窜下跳 figurative colloquial (be angry) 暴跳 bàotiào (be upset) 躁动不安 zàodòng bù'ān (be excited) 手舞足蹈 shǒu wǔ zú dǎo to jump in line AmE 插队 
② (move or act quickly) 快速行动 kuàisù xíngdòng to jump at [somebody's] command 听到某人命令后迅速行动 to jump to one's feet 一跃而起 jump to it! colloquial 赶快行动！ to make [somebody] jump 促使某人行动 to jump to conclusions 匆忙下结论 to jump to [somebody's] defence 积极为某人辩护 
③ (start) 吃惊 chījīng to make [somebody] jump 使某人大吃一惊 [somebody's] heart jumps; 某人心中一惊 to jump out of one's skin colloquial 大吃一惊 
④ (increase suddenly) «amount, value, profits, expenditure» 激增 jīzēng dividends jumped by 20 per cent that year 那年的红利猛增了20％ sales jumped from £2.7 billion to £3.5 billion 销售额从27亿英镑猛增到35亿英镑 
⑤ (change suddenly) 迅速转变 xùnsù zhuǎnbiàn to jump from one topic to another 从一个话题跳到另一个话题 
⑥ (move or jerk suddenly) 突然跳动 tūrán tiàodòng the needle jumped across the dial 指针在刻度盘上乱摆 
⑦ to be jumping AmE colloquial 非常活跃 fēicháng huóyuè the joint is really jumping tonight 今晚店里真热闹 jīnwǎn diàn li zhēn rènao 
B.  transitive verb 
① (leap over) 跳过 tiàoguo ‹ditch, gap, stream›; 翻过 fānguo ‹gate, fence, wall›to jump the gun colloquial (in race) «runner, athlete» 抢跑 (act prematurely) 贸然行动 to jump the lights BrE colloquial «person, car» 闯红灯 to jump ship «sailor» 未经允许离船 (leave organization) 擅自离职 to jump the queue BrE 插队 
② (cause to leap) 使跃起 shǐ yuèqǐ she jumped her horse over the hedge 她策马越过了树篱 
③ (cover by leaping) 跳越 tiàoyuè ‹distance›she has jumped 2.2 metres 她跳过了2.2米 
④ (omit) 略去 lüèqù ‹step›to jump a stage (in promotion hierarchy) 越级 (in argument) 省略步骤 
⑤ (be dislodged from) «carriage» 脱离 tuōlí ‹track›to jump the rails «train» 出轨 
⑥ especially AmE (board) 跳上 tiàoshang ‹train, bus›
C.  noun 
① (leap) 跳 tiào to give a jump for joy 高兴得跳起来 she cleared the distance in one jump 这个距离她一跳而过 to be one jump ahead (of [somebody]) 领先（某人）一步 to get or have the jump on [somebody] colloquial 抢在某人之前 
② Sport (barrier) 障碍物 zhàng'àiwù 
③ (sudden movement) 惊跳 jīng tiào I woke with a jump 我突然惊醒了 to give a jump (of fright) 吓了一跳 
④ (sudden increase) 突升 tū shēng a huge jump in profits/expenditure 利润/支出的激增 
⑤ (sudden transition) 突然跨越 tūrán kuàyuè the great jump forward to a new technological era 步入新技术时代的巨大飞跃 she's made the jump from deputy to director 她从副手一下子晋升为主任 PHRASAL VERBS jump at transitive verb[jump at something] 欣然接受 xīnrán jiēshòu ‹offer, opportunity, suggestion›jump back intransitive verb 
① (leap back) 迅速后退 xùnsù hòutuì to jump back from [somebody]/[something]; 迅速离开某人/某物 
② (return to position) «lever, spring» 归位 guīwèi jump down intransitive verb 跳下来 tiào xialai to jump down from or off [something]; 从…上跳下来 cóng… shang tiào xialai ‹wall, steps, ladder›jump in intransitive verb 
① (leap into water, pool, hole) 跳入 tiàorù she liked swimming but was nervous of jumping in 她喜欢游泳，但是害怕跳水 
② colloquial (get in car) 跳上车 tiàoshang chē 
③ colloquial (interrupt) 插话 chāhuà before she could finish, he jumped in with an objection 她话还没说完，他就插嘴反对 jump off A. transitive verb[jump off something] 从…上跳下来 cóng… shang tiào xialai ‹steps, diving board, bus›
B.  intransitive verb 跳下来 tiào xialai jump on A. transitive verb[jump on somebody/something] 
① colloquial (get on quickly) 跳上 tiàoshang ‹bus, train, horse›
② (leap on) 跳到…上面 tiàodào… shàngmian ‹bed›
③ (attack physically) 突然袭击 tūrán xíjī 
④ colloquial (criticize) 训斥 xùnchì she jumped on me for answering her back 她因为我跟她顶嘴就训了我一通 
B.  intransitive verb colloquial 跳上 tiàoshang as soon as the train drew up, they jumped on to get a seat 火车刚刚停下，他们就跳上车抢占座位 jump out intransitive verb 
① (leap out) 跳出 tiàochū to jump out of the window; 跳窗而出 
② to jump out of [something] colloquial (get out quickly) 从…上跳下来 cóng… shang tiào xialai ‹bed, train, bus›
③ to jump out in front of [somebody]/[something] (appear suddenly) 突然出现在某人/某物面前 tūrán chūxiàn zài mǒu rén/mǒu wù miànqián a figure suddenly jumped out from behind the tree 一个身影突然从树后跳了出来 she just jumped out in front of me 她一下子出现在我面前 jump out at transitive verb[jump out at somebody] 
① (surprise, attack) 突如其来地冲向 tū rú qí lái de chōngxiàng 
② (be obvious) 极易引起…的注意 jí yì yǐnqǐ… de zhùyì the mistakes in the figures jumped out at me 我一眼就看出数字有错误 jump up intransitive verb 
① (stand up from seat, bed, floor) 突然站起来 tūrán zhàn qilai he jumped up immediately and offered me his seat 他立刻站起来给我让座 
② to jump up on (to) [something] (leap upwards) 跳上某物 tiàoshang mǒu wù 
jump 
▶verb
1 the cat jumped off his lap 
Flora began to jump around: leap, spring, bound, hop; skip, caper, dance, prance, frolic, cavort.
2 he jumped the fence: vault (over), leap over, clear, sail over, hop over, hurdle.
3 pretax profits jumped: rise, go up, shoot up, soar, surge, climb, increase; informal skyrocket.
4 the noise made her jump: start, jerk, jolt, flinch, recoil; informal jump out of one's skin.
5 Polly jumped at the chance: accept eagerly, leap at, welcome with open arms, seize on, snap up, grab, pounce on.
6 the place was jumping: rock, hop, buzz, be lively, be wild.
7 two guys jumped him in the alley: assault, assail, set upon, mug, attack, pounce on.
▶noun
1 a short jump across the ditch: leap, spring, vault, bound, hop.
2 a jump in profits: rise, leap, increase, upsurge, upswing, upturn; informal hike.
3 I woke up with a jump: start, jerk, involuntary movement, spasm.
PHRASES
jump the gun informal several radio stations have jumped the gun by announcing winners long before the polls have closed in certain districts: act prematurely, act too soon, be too/overly hasty, be precipitate, be rash; informal be ahead of oneself. jump to it informal this year, students will really have to jump to it if they hope to get a hot meal before the kitchen closes: hurry up, get a move on, be quick; informal get cracking, shake a leg, look lively, look sharp, get the lead out; dated make haste.
