junior 
BrE ˈdʒuːnɪə, AmE ˈdʒunjər 

A.  adjective 
① (younger) 较年幼的 jiào niányòu de to be junior to [somebody] by two years 比某人小两岁 
② (low-ranking) 级别较低的 jíbié jiào dī de ‹official, partner›to be junior to [somebody] (in [something]); （在某方面）地位比某人低 
③ attributive (for youth) 适合青少年的 shìhé qīngshàonián de ‹division, fashion›; 少年组的 shàoniánzǔ de ‹league, player›
④ ( also Junior); especially AmE (in name) 小 xiǎo Bob Mortimer junior 小鲍勃莫蒂默 
B.  noun 
① (younger person) 年少者 niánshàozhě to be x years [somebody's] junior, to be [somebody's] junior by x years; 小某人X岁 
② (low-ranking worker) 职位较低者 zhíwèi jiào dī zhě the office junior 办公室初级文员 
③ AmE colloquial (as form of address) 大儿子 dà érzi 
④ BrE School (junior school student) 小学生 xiǎoxuéshēng 
⑤ AmE School, University (third-year student) [四年制中学或大学的] 三年级学生 sān niánjí xuésheng 
junior 
ˈjo͞onyər

▶adjective
1 of, for, or denoting young or younger people: junior tennis. 
• North American of or for students in the third year of a course lasting four years in college or high school: his junior year in college. 
• (often Junior) [postpositive in names] denoting the younger of two who have the same name in a family, especially a son as distinct from his father: John 
F.  Kennedy Junior. 
• British of, for, or denoting schoolchildren between the ages of
7 and 11.
2 low or lower in rank or status: Virginia's junior senator 
part of my function is to supervise those junior to me. 
▶noun
1 a person who is a specified number of years younger than someone else: he's five years her junior. 
• North American a student in the third year of college or high school. 
• (in sports) a young competitor, typically under sixteen or eighteen. 
• North American informal used as a nickname or form of address for one's son.
2 a person with low rank or status compared with others.
3 a size of clothing for teenagers or slender women. DERIVATIVES juniority 
jo͞onˈyôritē, -ˈyär- 
nounORIGIN Middle English (as an adjective following a family name): from Latin, comparative of juvenis ‘young.’
