keen
1 
BrE kiːn, AmE kin 
adjective 
① especially BrE (eager) 渴望的 kěwàng de to be keen (that) [somebody] should do [something], to be keen on [somebody's] doing [something], to be keen for [somebody] to do [something]; 很希望某人做某事 to look keen 显出渴望的样子 
② especially BrE (enthusiastic) 热心的 rèxīn de to be keen on [something] 热衷于某事物 to be keen on doing [something] or to do [something]; 热衷于做某事 my wife wants to go, but I'm not too keen or less than keen 我妻子想去，但我不太想去 a keen sportsman/supporter 热心体育运动的人/热心支持者 
③ to be keen on [somebody]/[something] especially BrE colloquial (attracted to) 对…着迷 ‹person› 喜欢 xǐhuan ‹idea›to be mad keen on [somebody]/[something] 对某人/某事物极度着迷 I'm not too keen or not over-keen on the idea 我不太喜欢这个主意 
④ (intense) 强烈的 qiángliè de ‹desire, interest›a keen sense of loss/tradition 强烈的失落感/传统意识 
⑤ (acute) 灵敏的 língmǐn de ‹ear, sight, sense of smell›; 敏锐的 mǐnruì de ‹mind, intelligence, powers of observation›to have a keen eye for [something] 对某事物有灵敏的识别力 
⑥ (competitive) 激烈的 jīliè de ‹competition, debate›
⑦ literary (sharp) 锋利的 fēnglì de ‹blade, point›; 寒冷刺骨的 hánlěng cìgǔ de ‹wind, air›
⑧ BrE (low) 低廉的 dīlián de ‹prices›
keen 
▶adjective
1 his publishers were keen to capitalize on his success: eager, anxious, intent, impatient, determined, ambitious, champing at the bit; informal raring, itching, dying. ANTONYMS reluctant.
2 a keen birdwatcher: enthusiastic, avid, eager, ardent, passionate, fervent, impassioned; conscientious, committed, dedicated, zealous. ANTONYMS apathetic, halfhearted.
3 they are keen on horses 
a girl he was keen on : enthusiastic about, interested in, passionate about; attracted to, fond of, taken with, smitten with, enamored of, infatuated with; informal struck on, hot on/for, mad about, crazy about, nuts about. ANTONYMS indifferent, unenthusiastic.
4 a keen cutting edge: sharp, sharpened, honed, razor-sharp. ANTONYMS blunt.
5 keen eyesight: acute, sharp, discerning, sensitive, perceptive, clear. ANTONYMS weak.
6 a keen mind: acute, penetrating, astute, incisive, sharp, perceptive, piercing, razor-sharp, perspicacious, shrewd, discerning, clever, intelligent, brilliant, bright, smart, wise, canny, percipient, insightful. ANTONYMS dull, stupid.
7 a keen wind: cold, icy, freezing, harsh, raw, bitter; penetrating, piercing, biting. ANTONYMS gentle.
8 a keen sense of duty: intense, acute, fierce, passionate, burning, fervent, ardent, strong, powerful.CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD keen, acute, astute, penetrating, perspicacious, sharp, shrewd A knife can be sharp, even keen, but it can't be astute. While keen and sharp mean having a fine point or edge, they also pertain to mental agility and perceptiveness. You might describe someone as having a keen mind, which suggests the ability to grapple with complex problems, or to observe details and see them as part of a larger pattern (a keen appreciation of what victory would mean for the Democratic party) or a keen wit, which suggests an incisive or stimulating sense of humor. Someone who is sharp has an alert and rational mind, but is not necessarily well grounded in a particular field and may in some cases be cunning or devious (sharp enough to see how the situation might be turned to her advantage). An astute mind, in contrast, is one that has a thorough and profound understanding of a given subject or field (an astute understanding of the legal principles involved). Like sharp, shrewd implies both practicality and cleverness, but with an undercurrent of self-interest (a shrewd salesperson). Acute is close in meaning to keen, but with more emphasis on sensitivity and the ability to make subtle distinctions (an acute sense of smell). While a keen mind might see only superficial details, a penetrating mind would focus on underlying causes (a penetrating analysis of the plan's feasibility). Perspicacious is the most formal of these terms, meaning both perceptive and discerning (a perspicacious remark; perspicacious judgment).These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
