key
1 
BrE kiː, AmE ki 

A.  noun 
① (for lock, door, car, clock, toy) 钥匙 yàoshi a front-door key, a key to the front door 前门钥匙 a spare key 备用钥匙 to put a key into a lock/the ignition 把钥匙插进锁眼/点火器 to turn a key in a lock/door 转动钥匙开锁/门 to have a duplicate key cut 配一把钥匙 
② (for radiator) 销子 xiāozi 
③ figurative (crucial point) 关键 guānjiàn the key to success/happiness 成功/幸福的关键 to hold the key to the mystery 掌握解开这个谜团的关键 
④ (on map) 图例 túlì 
⑤ (to abbreviations) 略语表 lüèyǔbiǎo 
⑥ (for code) 密码本 mìmǎběn 
⑦ (set of answers) 答案 dá'àn a key to the exercises 练习答案 
⑧ Music 调 diào the key of D major/minor D大调/小调 a piece of music in the key of E flat 一首降E调乐曲 to change key 变调 to sing in/off key 唱歌搭调/走调 
⑨ (on musical instrument, computer, phone, etc.) 键 jiàn the white keys (on piano) 白色琴键 to press or strike or hit a key 按键 ànjiàn 
⑩ figurative (general tone) 基调 jīdiào to be all in the same key 千篇一律 
B.  adjective 关键的 guānjiàn de ‹figure, role, issue›
C.  transitive verb 
① (input) 键入 jiànrù ‹text, data›
② (roughen) 将…弄毛糙 jiāng… nòng máocao ‹wall, surface›PHRASAL VERB key in transitive verb[key something in, key in something] 键入 jiànrù ‹text, data›
key
1 
kē

▶noun (plural keys)
1 a small piece of shaped metal with incisions cut to fit the wards of a particular lock, and that is inserted into a lock and turned to open or close it. 
• a small, shaped metal implement for operating a switch in the form of a lock, especially one operating the ignition of a motor vehicle. 
• short for key card. 
• an instrument for grasping and turning a screw, peg, or nut, especially one for winding a clock or turning a valve. 
• a pin, bolt, or wedge inserted between other pieces, or fitting into a hole or space designed for it, so as to lock parts together.
2 each of several buttons on a panel for operating a computer, typewriter, or telephone. 
• a lever depressed by the finger in playing an instrument such as the organ, piano, flute, or concertina. 
• a lever operating a mechanical device for making or breaking an electric circuit, for example, in telegraphy.
3 a thing that provides a means of gaining access to or understanding something: the key to Jack's behavior may lie submerged in his unhappy past. 
• an explanatory list of symbols used in a map, table, etc. 
• a set of answers to exercises or problems. 
• a word or system for solving a cipher or code. 
• the first move in the solution of a chess problem. 
• Computing a field in a record that is used to identify that record uniquely.
4 Music a group of notes based on a particular note and comprising a scale, regarded as forming the tonal basis of a piece or passage of music: the key of E minor. 
• the tone or pitch of someone's voice: his voice had changed to a lower key. 
• the prevailing tone or tenor of a piece of writing, situation, etc.: it was like the sixties all over again, in a new, more austerely intellectual key. 
• the prevailing range of tones or intensities in a painting: these mauves, lime greens, and saffron yellows recall the high key of El Greco's palette.
5 the dry winged fruit of an ash, maple, or sycamore maple, typically growing in bunches; a samara.
6 British the part of a first coat of wall plaster that passes between the laths and so secures the rest. 
• [in singular] the roughness of a surface, helping the adhesion of plaster or other material.
7 Basketball the keyhole-shaped area marked on the court near each basket, comprising the free-throw circle and the foul line. 
▶adjective of paramount or crucial importance: she became a key figure in the suffragette movement. 
▶verb (keys, keying, keyed 
kēd
) [with object]
1 enter or operate on (data) by means of a computer keyboard or telephone keypad: she keyed in a series of commands 
[no object] : a hacker caused considerable disruption after keying into a vital database.
2 (usually be keyed) fasten (something) in position with a pin, wedge, or bolt: the coils may be keyed into the slots by fiber wedges.
3 British roughen (a surface) to help the adhesion of plaster or other material.
4 word (an advertisement in a particular periodical), typically by varying the form of the address given, so as to identify the publication generating particular responses.
5 North American informal be the crucial factor in achieving: Ewing keyed a 73–35 advantage on the boards with twenty rebounds.
6 vandalize a car by scraping the paint from it with a key: somebody could key your car and not get punished. 
PHRASES
in (or out of) key in (or out of) harmony: this vaguely uplifting conclusion is out of key with the body of his book. under lock and key see lock1. PHRASAL VERBS key someone/something into (or in with) cause someone or something to be in harmony with: to those who are keyed into his lunatic sense of humor, the arrival of any Bergman movie is a major comic event.key something to chiefly North American make something fit in with or be linked to: this optimism is keyed to the possibility that the US might lead in the research field. be keyed up be nervous, tense, or excited, especially before an important event.DERIVATIVES keyer noun. keyless 
ˈkēləs 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English cǣg, cǣge, of unknown origin.
