kind
1 
BrE kʌɪnd, AmE kaɪnd 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(type) 种类 zhǒnglèi all or various kinds of people/activities, people/activities of all or various kinds 各种各样的人/活动 I like tennis, squash, that kind of thing 我喜欢网球、壁球之类的运动 that's the kind of person I am 我就是这种人 that's my kind of film! 这正是我喜欢的那类电影！ she's not the marrying kind 她不是那种适合结婚的女人 ideas of a dangerous/subversive kind 危险/具破坏性的想法 what kind of talk is that? 那叫什么话啊？ he must be some kind of idiot 他一定有点儿白痴 would you like a drink of some kind? 你要喝点儿什么吗？ of its kind 在其同类中 the only one of its kind 绝无仅有 one of a kind 独一无二 two/three etc. of a kind (same) 两个/三个等完全一样的 (similar) 两个/三个等非常相似的 (in card games) 两张/三张等相同点数的 they're two of a kind 他们俩一个样 something of the or that kind 类似的事情 he's resigning — I expected something of the kind 他要辞职了──我料到会有这样的事 nothing or not anything of the kind 完全不是那么回事 he's an idiot — he's nothing of the kind! 他是个傻瓜──他才不傻呢！ of a kind pejorative 徒有其名 it's wine of a kind 这葡萄酒不怎么样 
② Countablea kind of (sth. resembling) 几分 jǐfēn a kind of toy/genius 玩具类的东西/有几分像天才的人 to feel a kind of apprehension 感到几分担心 gǎndào jǐfēn dānxīn 
③ Countable(classified type) 某类人 mǒu lèi rén I know his kind 我了解他这类人 one's (own) kind 同类的人 
B.  in kind adverb phrase 
① (in goods) to pay in kind 以实物支付 yǐ shíwù zhīfù 
② (in same way) to repay [somebody] in kind (with good deed) 以德报德 yǐ dé bào dé (with bad deed) 以牙还牙 yǐ yá huán yá to respond in kind 以其人之道还治其人之身 yǐ qí rén zhī dào huán zhì qí rén zhī shēn 
③ (in essence) 在本质上 zài běnzhì shang the regions differ in size, but not in kind 这些地区大小不同，但实际上并无区别 
C.  kind of adverb phrase colloquial 有几分 yǒu jǐfēn I kind of like him 我有点喜欢他 I kind of thought/heard that … 我倾向于认为/好像听说… did you have fun? — kind of 你玩得高兴吗？──还行吧 did you have a row? — kind of 你是不是打架了？──差不多算是吧 
kind
1 
kīnd

▶noun a group of people or things having similar characteristics: all kinds of music 
a new kind of education 
more data of this kind would be valuable. 
• character; nature: the trials were different in kind from any that preceded them 
true to kind. 
• each of the elements (bread and wine) of the Eucharist: communion in both kinds. 
PHRASES
in kind in the same way; with something similar: if he responded positively, they would respond in kind. 
• (of payment) in goods or services as opposed to money. one's (own) kind people with whom one has a great deal in common: we stick with our own kind. someone's kind used to express disapproval of a certain type of person: I don't apologize to her kind ever. kind of informal rather; to some extent (often expressing vagueness or used as a meaningless filler): it got kind of cozy. a kind of something resembling (used to express vagueness or moderate a statement): teaching based on a kind of inspired guesswork. nothing of the kind not at all like the thing in question: my son had done nothing of the kind before. 
• used to express an emphatic denial: “He made you do that?” “He did nothing of the kind.” of its kind within the limitations of its class: this new building was no doubt excellent of its kind. of a kind used to indicate that something is not as good as it might be expected to be: there is tribute, of a kind, in such popularity. one of a kind unique. something of the kind something like the thing in question: they had always suspected something of the kind. two (or three, four, etc.) of a kind the same or very similar: she and her sister were two of a kind. 
• (of cards) having the same face value but of a different suit. 
• a hand consisting of cards having the same face value but in different suits.ORIGIN Old English cynd(e), gecynd(e), of Germanic origin; related to kin. The original sense was ‘nature, the natural order,’ also ‘innate character, form, or condition’ (compare with kind2); hence ‘a class or race distinguished by innate characteristics.’ usage:
1 Kind of is sometimes used to be deliberately vague: it was kind of a big evening; I was kind of hoping you'd call. More often it reveals an inability to speak clearly: he's kind of, like, inarticulate, you know? Used precisely, it means ‘sort’ or ‘type’: a maple is a kind of tree.
2 The plural of kind often causes difficulty. With this or that, speaking of one kind, use a singular construction: this kind of cake is my favorite; that kind of fabric doesn't need ironing. With these or those, speaking of more than one kind, use a plural construction: these kinds of guitars are very expensive; those kinds of animals ought to be left in the wild. Although often encountered, sentences such as I don't like these kind of things are incorrect. The same recommendations apply to sort and sorts.
