kiss 
BrE kɪs, AmE kɪs 

A.  transitive verb 
① (touch with lips) 亲吻 qīnwěn to kiss [somebody] on the lips/cheek 亲吻某人的双唇/面颊 to kiss [somebody] goodnight 亲吻某人并道晚安 the two lovers kissed each other 这对恋人相互亲吻 to kiss hands (ceremoniously) 行吻手礼 to kiss the ground 匍匐在地 ［向所到国表示问候］to kiss [something] better colloquial 亲一亲某处就好了 to kiss [something] goodbye, to kiss goodbye to [something] colloquial 承认对某事物无能为力 you can kiss that money goodbye! 那笔钱你就别想要回来了！ to kiss ([somebody's]) arse BrE or AmE ass vulg 拍（某人的）马屁 kiss my arse BrE or AmE ass ! vulg 见鬼去吧！ 
② (in snooker, billiards) 轻轻擦过 qīngqīng cāguo 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (touch with lips) 亲吻 qīnwěn to kiss and make up 亲吻以示和好 to kiss and tell 宣扬自己的风流韵事 
② (in snooker, billiards) «balls» 轻碰 qīng pèng 
C.  noun 吻 wěn to give [somebody] a kiss; 亲某人一下 a kiss on the lips 唇吻 a goodnight kiss 晚上告别时的吻 love and kisses (in letter) 爱你吻你 
kiss 
kis

▶verb [with object] touch with the lips as a sign of love, sexual desire, reverence, or greeting: he kissed her on the lips 
[with object and complement] : she kissed the children goodnight 
[no object] : we started kissing. 
• Billiards (of a ball) lightly touch (another ball) in passing. 
▶noun
1 a touch with the lips in kissing. 
• Billiards a slight touch of a ball against another ball. 
• used to express affection at the end of a letter (conventionally represented by the letter X): she sent lots of love and a whole line of kisses.
2 North American a small cake or cookie, typically a meringue. 
• a small candy, especially one made of chocolate. 
PHRASES
kiss and make up become reconciled. kiss and tell recount one's sexual exploits, especially to the media concerning a famous person: [as adjective] : this isn't a kiss-and-tell book. kiss someone's ass vulgar slang behave obsequiously toward someone.kiss ass North American vulgar slang behave in an obsequious or sycophantic way. kiss something good-bye (or kiss good-bye to something) informal accept the certain loss of something: I could kiss my career good-bye.kiss something to make it better informal comfort a sick or injured person, especially a child, by kissing the sore or injured part of their body as a gesture of removing pain. kiss of death 
ˌkis əv ˈdeTH 
an action or event that causes certain failure for an enterprise: it would be the kiss of death for the company if it could be proved that the food was unsafe. kiss of life 
ˌkis əv ˈlīf 
mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. 
• an action or event that revives a failing enterprise: good ratings gave the program the kiss of life. kiss of peace a ceremonial kiss given or exchanged as a sign of unity, especially during the Christian Eucharist. kiss the rod accept punishment submissively.PHRASAL VERBS kiss someone/something off North American informal dismiss someone rudely; end a relationship abruptly. kiss up to North American informal behave sycophantically or obsequiously toward (someone) in order to obtain something.DERIVATIVES kissable 
ˈkisəb(ə)l 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English cyssan (verb), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch kussen and German küssen .
