knit 
BrE nɪt, AmE nɪt
(past tense, past participle knitted or knit) 
A.  transitive verb 
① (make) 编织 biānzhī to knit [somebody] a sweater 为某人织毛线衣 
② figurative (join together) 使紧密结合 shǐ jǐnmì jiéhé a closely-knit family 关系融洽的家庭 to knit one's brows 皱眉 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (make with wool) 编织 biānzhī 
② (join together) «bones» 愈合 yùhé PHRASAL VERBS knit together 
A.  transitive verb[knit something together, knit together something] 
① literal 编 biān ‹strands›
② figurative (bring together) 使…紧密融合 shǐ… jǐnmì rónghé ‹ideas›
③ figurative (unite) 使…紧密团结 shǐ… jǐnmì tuánjié ‹members of group›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (join) «bones» 愈合 yùhé ; «eyebrows» 紧皱 jǐn zhòu 
② figurative (unite) «members of group» 紧密团结 jǐnmì tuánjié knit up 
A.  transitive verb[knit something up, knit up something] 编织 biānzhī ‹wool, yarn, garment›
B.  intransitive verb «yarn, wool» 编织成衫 biānzhī chéng shān 
knit 
nit

▶verb (knits, knitting; past and past participle knitted or (especially in sense 2) knit)
1 [with object] make (a garment, blanket, etc.) by interlocking loops of wool or other yarn with knitting needles or on a machine. 
• make (a stitch or row of stitches) by interlocking loops of yarn. 
• knit with a knit stitch: knit one, purl one.
2 unite or cause to unite: [no object] : disparate regions had begun to knit together under the king 
[with object] : he knitted together a squad of players other clubs had disregarded 
[as adjective, with submodifier] (knit) : a closely knit family. 
• [no object] (of parts of a broken bone) become joined during healing.
3 [with object] tighten (one's brow or eyebrows) in a frown of concentration, disapproval, or anxiety. 
▶adjective denoting or relating to a knitting stitch made by putting the needle through the front of the stitch from left to right. Compare with purl1. 
▶noun a knitted fabric: a machine-washable knit. 
• a garment made of a knitted fabric: an array of casual knits. DERIVATIVES knitter 
ˈnidər 
nounORIGIN Old English cnyttan; related to German dialect knütten, also to knot1. The original sense was ‘tie in or with a knot,’ hence ‘join, unite’ ( sense
2 of the verb); an obsolete Middle English sense ‘knot string to make a net’ gave rise to sense
1 of the verb .
