knot 
BrE nɒt, AmE nɑt 

A.  noun 
① (fastening) 结 jié to tie a knot 打个结 to cut the (Gordian) knot figurative 快刀斩乱麻 to tie the (marriage) knot colloquial 结婚 to tie [somebody] up in knots figurative 使某人困惑不解 
② (tied decoration) 花结 huājié 
③ (tangle in hair or string) 缠结 chánjié 
④ (in wood) 节子 jiēzi 
⑤ (group) 一小群 yī xiǎo qún 
⑥ (tense feeling) 紧揪感 jǐnjiūgǎn he had a knot in his stomach 他感到心里一阵紧揪 
⑦ Nautical, Aviation 节 jié [速度计量单位]at a rate of knots BrE colloquial 飞快地 
B.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -tt-) 
① (tie in a knot) 把…打成结 bǎ… dǎchéng jié to knot one's tie 打领带 
② (make tense) 使…紧揪 shǐ… jǐn jiū ‹stomach›
C.  intransitive verb(present participle etc. -tt-) 
① (form a knot) 打结 dǎjié 
② (become tense) 紧揪 jǐn jiū PHRASAL VERB knot together transitive verb[knot something together, knot together something] 把…打结 bǎ… dǎjié 
knot
1 
nät

▶noun
1 a fastening made by tying a piece of string, rope, or something similar: knots tie a knot at the end of the cord 
figurative : a complicated knot of racial politics and pride. 
• a particular method of tying a knot: you need to master two knots, the clove hitch and the sheet bend. 
• a tied or folded ribbon, worn as an ornament.
2 a tangled mass in something such as hair.
3 a knob, protuberance, or node in a stem, branch, or root. 
• a hard mass formed in a tree trunk at the intersection with a branch, resulting in a round cross-grained piece in timber when cut through. 
• a hard lump of tissue in an animal or human body.
4 an unpleasant feeling of tightness or tension in a part of the body: her stomach was in knots as she unlocked the door.
5 a small tightly packed group of people: the little knot of people clustered around the doorway.
6 a unit of speed equivalent to one nautical mile per hour, used especially of ships, aircraft, and winds. 
• chiefly historical a length marked by knots on a log line, as a measure of speed: some days the vessel logged
12 knots. 
▶verb (knots, knotting, knotted) [with object]
1 fasten with a knot: the scarves were knotted loosely around their throats. 
• make (a carpet or other decorative item) with knots.
2 make (something, especially hair) tangled.
3 cause (a muscle) to become tense and hard. 
• [no object] (of the stomach) tighten as a result of nervousness or tension. 
PHRASES
tie someone (up) in knots informal make someone completely confused: they tied themselves in knots over what to call the country. tie the knot informal get married.DERIVATIVES knotless adjective. knotter nounORIGIN Old English cnotta; related to Dutch knot .
