knowledge 
BrE ˈnɒlɪdʒ, AmE ˈnɑlədʒ 
nounUncountable
① (store of factual information) 知识 zhīshi (learning) 学问 xuéwen to have a wide/superficial knowledge of [something] 在某方面知识渊博/肤浅 the sum of human knowledge 人类知识的总和 all branches of knowledge 所有知识门类 a thirst for knowledge 对知识的渴求 
② (awareness) 了解 liǎojiě to have knowledge of [something] 对某事物有了解 to have no knowledge of good or evil 不能分辨善恶 with the knowledge that … 得知… to [somebody's] knowledge; 据某人所知 to bring [something] to [somebody's] knowledge formal 让某人了解某事物 it has come to my knowledge that … formal 我已经了解到… with [somebody's] full knowledge, with the full knowledge of [somebody] 在某人完全知情的情况下 without [somebody's] knowledge, without the knowledge of [somebody] 在某人不知情的情况下 
③ (grasp) 语言能力 yǔyán nénglì to have a working knowledge of five languages 会使用五种语言 my knowledge of Italian is limited 我对意大利语知之甚少 
④ (familiarity) 熟悉程度 shúxī chéngdù one's knowledge of the city/legislation 对这个城市/这项法规的熟悉程度 
knowledge 
▶noun
1 his knowledge of history 
technical knowledge: understanding, comprehension, grasp, command, mastery; expertise, skill, proficiency, expertness, accomplishment, adeptness, capacity, capability; informal know-how. ANTONYMS ignorance.
2 people anxious to display their knowledge: learning, erudition, education, scholarship, schooling, wisdom. ANTONYMS ignorance, illiteracy.
3 he slipped away without my knowledge: awareness, consciousness, realization, cognition, apprehension, perception, appreciation; formal cognizance. ANTONYMS unawareness.
4 an intimate knowledge of the countryside: familiarity with, acquaintance with, intimacy with.
5 inform the police of your knowledge: information, facts, intelligence, news, reports, hot tip; informal info, (the) lowdown.
WORD LINKS
knowledge gnostic relating to knowledgeWord Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD knowledge, erudition, information, learning, pedantry, scholarship, wisdom How much do you know? Knowledge applies to any body of facts gathered by study, observation, or experience, and to the ideas inferred from these facts (an in-depth knowledge of particle physics; firsthand knowledge about the company). Information may be no more than a collection of data or facts (information about vacation resorts) gathered through observation, reading, or hearsay, with no guarantee of their validity (false information that led to the arrest). Scholarship emphasizes academic knowledge or accomplishment (a special award for scholarship), while learning is knowledge gained not only by study in school, but by individual research and investigation (a man of education and learning), which puts it on a somewhat higher plane. Erudition is on a higher plane still, implying bookish knowledge that is beyond the average person's comprehension (the extraordinary erudition in her doctoral dissertation). Pedantry, on the other hand, is a negative term for a slavish attention to obscure facts or details or an undue display of learning (the pedantry of modern literary criticism). You can have extensive knowledge of a subject and even exhibit erudition, however, without attaining wisdom, the superior judgment and understanding that is based on both knowledge and experience.These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
