labour 
BrE ˈleɪbə, AmE ˈleɪbər
BrE 
A.  noun 
① Countable and uncountable(work) 劳动 láodòng the division of labour 分工 to withdraw one's labour 罢工 a labour of love 出于热爱而做的工作 the labours of Hercules 异常艰巨的任务 before noun 劳动力的 láodònglì de ‹costs, shortage›; 劳资的 láozī de ‹dispute›the graduate labour market is changing 毕业生就业市场正在发生变化 
② Uncountable(workers) 劳工 láogōng cheap labour 廉价劳动力 skilled/unskilled labour 熟练/非熟练工人 before noun 工会的 gōnghuì de ‹leader›
③ UncountableLabour BrE Politics 工党 Gōngdǎng to vote Labour 投工党的票 before noun 工党的 Gōngdǎng de ‹MP, government, policy›the Labour vote 投给工党的选票 
④ Countable and uncountableMedicine 分娩 fēnmiǎn to go into or begin labour 开始分娩 to be in labour 正在分娩 an easy/difficult labour 顺产/难产 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (work hard) 努力 nǔlì he's been labouring at or over the report since Wednesday 自星期三以来他一直忙着写这份报告 to labour to do [something]; 努力做某事 they were labouring to finish the job on time 他们正努力争取按时完成工作 
② (have difficulties) 费力地做 fèilì de zuò Auto «engine» 缓慢运转 huǎnmàn yùnzhuǎn he was labouring to breathe 他吃力地呼吸着 the car laboured up the hill 这辆车费力地爬上了山 
③ (suffer) to labour under a misapprehension/a handicap; 为误会/障碍所蒙蔽 wéi wùhuì/zhàng'ài suǒ méngbì he's labouring under the delusion that he is going to be offered the job 他有一种错觉，以为自己会得到这份工作 we must not labour under the illusion that we are safe 我们一定不要误以为我们是安全的 
C.  transitive verb to labour the point 一再重复已说明的事 yīzài chóngfù yǐ shuōmíng de shì if you keep labouring the point, your arguments become less effective 如果你总是重复，你的论点就会变得没有说服力 
labor 
▶noun
1 manual labor: work, hard work, toil, exertion, industry, drudgery, effort, menial work; informal slog, grind, sweat, scut work; literary travail, moil. ANTONYMS rest, leisure.
2 management and labor need to cooperate: workers, employees, workmen, workforce, staff, working people, blue-collar workers, laborers, labor force, proletariat. ANTONYMS management.
3 the labors of Hercules: task, job, chore, mission, assignment.
4 a difficult labor: childbirth, birth, delivery, nativity; contractions, labor pains; formal parturition; literary travail; dated confinement; archaic lying-in, accouchement, childbed.
▶verb
1 a project on which he had labored for many years: work, work hard, toil, slave (away), grind away, struggle, strive, exert oneself, work one's fingers to the bone, work like a dog, work like a Trojan; informal slog away, plug away; literary travail, moil.
2 she labored to unite the party: strive, struggle, endeavor, work, try, work hard, try hard, make every effort, do one's best, do one's utmost, do all one can, give one's all, go all out, fight, put oneself out, apply oneself, exert oneself; informal bend/lean/fall over backwards, pull out all the stops, bust a gut, bust one's chops.
3 there is no need to labor the point: overemphasize, belabor, overstress, overdo, strain, overplay, make too much of, exaggerate, dwell on, harp on.
4 Rex was laboring under a misapprehension: suffer from, be a victim of, be deceived by, be misled by.CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD labor, drudgery, grind, toil, travail, work Most people have to work for a living, meaning that they have to exert themselves mentally or physically in return for a paycheck. But work is not always performed by humans (a machine that works like a charm). Labor is not only human but usually physical work (the labor required to build a stone wall), although it can also apply to intellectual work of unusual difficulty (the labor involved in writing a symphony). Anyone who has been forced to perform drudgery knows that it is the most unpleasant, uninspiring, and monotonous kind of labor (a forklift that eliminates the drudgery of stacking boxes; the drudgery of compiling a phone book). A grind is even more intense and unrelenting than drudgery, emphasizing work that is performed under pressure in a dehumanizing way (the daily grind of classroom teaching). Toil suggests labor that is prolonged and very tiring (farmers who toil endlessly in the fields), but not necessarily physical (mothers who toil to teach their children manners). Those who travail endure pain, anguish, or suffering (his hours of travail ended in heartbreak).These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
