lace 
BrE leɪs, AmE leɪs 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(fabric) 花边 huābiān a piece of lace 一条花边 edged or trimmed with lace 镶花边的 before noun 蕾丝的 lěisī de ‹curtain, handkerchief›lace industry 蕾丝编织业 
② Countable(of shoe, boot, dress) 鞋带 xiédài (of tent) 系带 jì dài to tie one's laces 系鞋带 
B.  transitive verb 
① (fasten, tie) 系上 jìshang ‹dress›to lace [somebody] into [something] 帮某人束紧 ‹corset›to lace one's shoes 系鞋带 
② (add substance to) 为…调味 wèi… tiáowèi ‹drink, food›to lace a drink with alcohol/poison 在饮料中掺入酒精/毒药 PHRASAL VERB lace up 
A.  transitive verb[lace something up, lace up something] 系上 jìshang ‹dress, boots, corset›to lace up one's shoes 系鞋带 
B.  intransitive verb 系带 jì dài a dress that laces up at the back 从后面系带的连衣裙 
lace 
lās

▶noun
1 a fine open fabric, typically one of cotton or silk, made by looping, twisting, or knitting thread in patterns and used especially for trimming garments. 
• braid used for trimming, especially on military dress uniforms.
2 (usually laces) a cord or leather strip passed through eyelets or hooks on opposite sides of a shoe or garment and then pulled tight and fastened. 
▶verb [with object]
1 fasten or tighten (a shoe or garment) by tying its laces: he put the shoes on and laced them up. 
• (lace someone into) fasten someone into (a garment) by tightening the laces: Morris laced Bill and David into boxing gloves. 
• (lace something through) pass a lace or cord through (a hole). 
• compress the waist of (someone) with a laced corset: Rosina laced her up tight to show off her neat, pretty waist. 
• [no object] (of a garment or shoe) be fastened by means of laces: the shoes laced at the front.
2 entwine or tangle (things, especially fingers) together: he laced his fingers together and sat back.
3 (usually be laced with) add an ingredient, especially alcohol, to (a drink or dish) to enhance its flavor or strength: he gave us coffee laced with brandy. 
• give (something) a particular feature or quality: her brown hair was laced with gray 
the script is laced with expletives.
4 US hit (something, especially a baseball) hard: he laced a double down the first-base line. PHRASAL VERBS lace into informal assail or tackle (something): Marion laced into her opponent with a blistering criticism.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French laz, las (noun), lacier (verb), based on Latin laqueus ‘noose’ (also an early sense in English). Compare with lasso .
