lady 
BrE ˈleɪdi, AmE ˈleɪdi 

A.  noun 
① (woman) 女士 nǚshì ladies first 女士先请 ladies and gentlemen (at the start of a speech) 女士们，先生们 his young lady dated 他的女友 your good lady dated 尊夫人 my old lady colloquial 我老婆 look here, young lady! colloquial 喂，小姐！ the lady of the house 主妇 a little old lady 一个小老太太 hey lady! — you can't park there! AmE colloquial 嘿，女士！──不能在那里泊车！ a lady doctor/writer 女医生/作家 
② (woman of good manners) 淑女 shūnǚ 
③ Lady BrE (in titles) (wife of some nobles) 夫人 fūren ; (daughter of some nobles) 小姐 xiǎojiě Lady Churchill 丘吉尔夫人 Lady Philippa (Stewart) 菲利帕(斯图亚特)小姐 
④ Lady (in official titles) 阁下 géxià the Lady Mayoress 市长女士阁下 
⑤ Religion Our Lady 圣母 shèngmǔ 
B.  Ladies noun pluralplus singular or plural verb BrE the Ladies 女洗手间 nǚ xǐshǒujiān 
lady 
ˈlādē

▶noun (plural ladies)
1 a woman (used as a polite or old-fashioned form of reference): I spoke to the lady at the travel agency 
[as modifier] : a lady doctor. 
• chiefly North American an informal, often brusque, form of address to a woman: I'm sorry, lady, but you have the wrong number.
2 a woman of superior social position, especially one of noble birth: lords and ladies and royalty were once entertained at the house. 
• a courteous, decorous, or genteel woman: his wife was a real lady, with such nice manners. 
• (Lady) (in the UK) a title used by peeresses, female relatives of peers, the wives and widows of knights, etc.: Lady Caroline Lamb.
3 (one's lady) dated a man's wife: welcoming the vice president and his lady. 
• (also lady friend) a woman with whom a man is romantically or sexually involved: the young man bought a rose for his lady. 
• historical a woman to whom a man, especially a knight, is chivalrously devoted.
4 (the ladies) British a women's public restroom. 
PHRASES
it isn't over till the fat lady sings used to convey that there is still time for a situation to change. [by association with the final aria in tragic opera.] ladies who lunch informal or often derogatory women with both the means and the free time to meet each other socially for lunch in expensive restaurants. Lady Bountiful 
ˌlādē ˈbountiˌfo͝ol 
a woman who engages in ostentatious acts of charity, more to impress others than out of a sense of concern for those in need. [early 19th century: from the name of a character in Farquhar's The Beaux' Stratagem (1707).] Lady Luck chance personified as a controlling power in human affairs: it seemed Lady Luck was still smiling on them. Lady Muck 
ˌlādē ˈmək 
British informal a haughty or pretentious woman (often as a mocking form of address). lady of the house a woman at the head of a household: he always asked the lady of the house the shade of paint she would like. My Lady a polite form of address to certain noblewomen.DERIVATIVES ladyhood 
-ˌho͝od 
nounORIGIN Old English hlǣfdīge (denoting a woman to whom homage or obedience is due, such as the wife of a lord or the mistress of a household, also specifically the Virgin Mary), from hlāf ‘loaf’ + a Germanic base meaning ‘knead,’ related to dough; compare with lord. In Lady Day and other compounds where it signifies possession, it represents the Old English genitive hlǣfdīgan ‘(Our) Lady's.’
