land 
BrE land, AmE lænd 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(terrain, not sea) 陆地 lùdì flat/mountainous land 平地/山地 back on dry land 重返陆地 to reach or make land; 到岸 to travel by land 陆路旅行 the war on land 陆战 how the land lies figurative 目前情况 before noun 陆地上的 lùdì shang de the land battle/forces 陆战/地面部队 land transport 陆地交通 a land animal 陆生动物 before noun 土地的 tǔdì de ‹clearance, prices, law›; 地面的 dìmiàn de ‹drainage›
② Uncountable(area of ground) 地产 dìchǎn private/public land 私有/公共地产 forest/building land 林地/建筑用地 
③ Uncountable(farmland) 田地 tiándì arable land 可耕地 the fruits of the land 土地的产出 to live off the land 靠土地生活 to work the land 种地 before noun a land worker 农场工人 
④ Uncountable(countryside) 农村 nóngcūn to live on/leave the land 住在/离开农村 
⑤ Countable(country) 国家 guójiā the finest orchestra in the land 国内最好的管弦乐队 foreign lands 外国 throughout the land 全国各地 the land of opportunity 机遇之乡 
B.  transitive verb 
① Aerospace, Aviation 使…着陆 shǐ… zhuólù ‹aircraft, spacecraft, passenger›; 卸下 xièxia ‹cargo›Nautical 使…上岸 shǐ… shàng'àn ‹passenger›
② Fishing (with net) 捕到 bǔdào (with rod) 钓到 diàodào 
③ figurative colloquial (secure) 得到 dédào to land a prize 获奖 to land a job/contract 找到工作/揽到一份合同 
④ colloquial (burden) 给…强加 gěi… qiángjiā to land [somebody] with [something]; 把…推给某人 ‹task, problem›I was landed with the children/with washing the car 照看孩子/洗车的任务落在了我头上 
⑤ colloquial (cause to be in) 使陷于 shǐ xiànyú to land [somebody] in court 把某人送上法庭 to land [somebody] in it; 给某人惹上麻烦 now you've really landed her in it or in a fine mess! 这下你可真给她惹出大麻烦了！ 
⑥ colloquial (deliver) 打 dǎ ‹blow, punch›she landed him one (in the eye) 她打了他（的眼睛）一拳 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (end up) 落下 luòxià he fell and landed at the bottom of the stairs 他摔下来，跌到了楼梯底部 the petition landed on my desk 请愿书放到了我的桌上 the punch landed on his chin 这一拳打在他的下巴上 to land in hot water figurative 陷入困境 
② Aerospace, Aviation «aircraft, spacecraft, passenger» 着陆 zhuólù Nautical «passenger» 上岸 shàng'àn 
D.  reflexive verb to land oneself in; 陷入 xiànrù ‹difficult situation›he landed himself in jail/hospital 他进了监狱/住进了医院 tā jìnle jiānyù/zhùjìnle yīyuàn to land oneself with colloquial 承担 chéngdān ‹task, problem›she landed herself with an unpleasant task 她揽下了一份苦差事 PHRASAL VERB land up intransitive verb colloquial 告终 gàozhōng to land up in prison 最终落得个锒铛入狱的下场 he landed up with the bill 账单最终由他付 she landed up doing everything herself 她最后自己做了所有的事 
land 
land

▶noun
1 the part of the earth's surface that is not covered by water, as opposed to the sea or the air: the reptiles lay their eggs on land 
after four weeks at sea we sighted land. 
• [as modifier] living or traveling on land rather than in water or the air: a land mammal. 
• an expanse of land; an area of ground, especially in terms of its ownership or use: the land north of the village 
(lands) : the Indians were wiped out as gold prospectors invaded their lands. 
• (the land) ground or soil used as a basis for agriculture: my family had worked the land for many years.
2 a country: the valley is one of the most beautiful in the land 
the lands of the Middle East 
America, the land of political equality. 
• a conceptual realm or domain: you are living in a fantasy land.
3 the space between the rifling grooves in a gun. 
▶verb
1 [with object] put (someone or something) on land from a boat: the lifeboat landed the survivors safely ashore. 
• [no object] go ashore; disembark: the marines landed at a small fishing jetty. 
• bring (a fish) to land, especially with a net or hook: I landed a scrappy three-pound walleye. 
• informal succeed in obtaining or achieving (something desirable), especially in the face of strong competition: she landed the starring role in a new film.
2 [no object] come down through the air and alight on the ground: planes landing at the rate of two a minute. 
• [with object] bring (an aircraft or spacecraft) to the ground or the surface of water, especially in a controlled way: the copilot landed the plane. 
• reach the ground after falling or jumping: he leaped over the fence and landed nimbly on his feet. 
• [with adverbial of place] (of an object) come to rest after falling or being thrown: the plate landed in her lap. 
• informal (of something unpleasant or unexpected) arrive suddenly: there seemed to be more problems than ever landing on her desk this week.
3 [with object] (land someone in) informal cause someone to be in (a difficult or unwelcome situation): his exploits always landed him in trouble. 
• (land someone with) inflict (an unwelcome task or a difficult situation) on someone: the mistake landed the company with a massive bill.
4 [with object] informal inflict (a blow) on someone: I won the fight without landing a single punch 
[with two objects] : I landed him one. 
PHRASES
how the land lies what the state of affairs is: let's keep it to ourselves until we see how the land lies. in the land of the living humorous alive or awake. the land of Nod humorous a state of sleep. [punningly, with biblical allusion to the place name Nod (Gen. 4:16).] land on one's feet have good luck or success, especially after risk or trial: after some ups and downs, he has finally landed on his feet. the lay (British lie) of the land the way in which the features or characteristics of an area present themselves. 
• the current situation or state of affairs: she was beginning to see the lay of the land with her in-laws. live off the land live on whatever food one can obtain by hunting, gathering, or subsistence farming.PHRASAL VERBS land up reach a place or situation; end up: I landed up in prison.ORIGIN Old English, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch land and German Land .
