language 
BrE ˈlaŋɡwɪdʒ, AmE ˈlæŋɡwɪdʒ 
noun 
① Uncountable and countable(system, of particular nation) 语言 yǔyán language skills/acquisition 语言技能/习得 the English language 英语 one's native language 母语 a foreign/dead language 外语/死语言 to enter or pass into the language 融入语言 to speak the same language figurative 志趣相投 bad or strong or foul language 脏话 to put [something] in one's own language 用自己的语言表述某事物 before noun 语言的 yǔyán de ‹ability, learner, teacher, use›
② Countable(words used by a particular group) 专用语 zhuānyòngyǔ the language of science or scientific language 科学术语 formal/legal language 正式/法律用语 
③ Uncountable(manner of expressing oneself) 措词 cuòcí mind your language! 注意你的言辞！ don't use that language with me! 别对我那样说话！ 
④ Uncountable and countable(system of signs) 表达方式 biǎodá fāngshì the language of flowers 花语 
⑤ CountableComputing 计算机语言 jìsuànjī yǔyán 
language 
▶noun
1 the structure of language: speech, writing, communication, conversation, speaking, talking, talk, discourse; words, vocabulary.
2 the English language: tongue, mother tongue, native tongue; dialect, patois, slang, idiom, jargon, argot, cant; informal lingo.
3 the booklet is written in simple, everyday language: wording, phrasing, phraseology, style, vocabulary, terminology, expressions, turns of phrase, parlance, form/mode of expression, usages, locutions, choice of words, idiolect; informal lingo.
WORD LINKS
language linguistic relating to language linguistics the scientific study of languageWord Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.REFLECTIONS David Lehmanlanguage "Made in the USA" Akin to the theoretical pleasure of explaining the rules of baseball to an Oxford don is the perpetuation of sentences composed of neologisms made in the USA: “The G-man, clad in tuxedo and T-shirt, played strip poker with the terrorist wannabe before wasting him at a unisex boutique.” Try explaining that to anyone caught in a 1928 time warp. Why 1928? Because that year the last part of the Oxford English Dictionary was published. It is now updated (itself a term unknown in 1928) online quarterly, but the first revision was edited by Robert Burchfield, who completed A Supplement to the Oxford English Dictionary in 1986. The final volume of the Supplement includes the nouns sit-com, sit-in, teenager, touchdown, transistor, and the adjective user-friendly, and one might write a sestina using precisely these as the six recurrent endwords on which the sestina as a form is based. “The center of gravity for the English language is no longer Britain,” Burchfield observed in 1986. “American English is the greatest influence on English everywhere.”Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
