lap 
BrE lap, AmE læp 

A.  noun 
① (area of body) 大腿部 dàtuǐbù the child was sitting in or on her mother's lap 孩子坐在她妈妈的腿上 in the lap of the gods 结果难以预料 all we can do is to wait, now; it's in the lap of the gods 现在我们能做的只有等待；这事非人力所能左右 in the lap of luxury 生活优裕 to drop or dump a problem in [somebody's] lap 把问题推给某人 
② Sport 一圈 yī quān on the last lap literal 在最后一圈 figurative 在最后阶段 zài zuìhòu jiēduàn to run a lap of honour 绕场一周欢庆胜利 
③ (part of journey) 一段 yī duàn ; (part of a project, task) 阶段 jiēduàn the next lap of the journey 下一段旅程 
B.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -pp-) 
① (drink) 舔食 tiǎnshí 
② Sport (go one lap ahead of) 比…领先一圈 bǐ… lǐngxiān yī quān (go two or more laps ahead of) 比…领先数圈 bǐ… lǐngxiān shù quān 
③ (overlap) 部分重叠于…之上 bùfen chóngdié yú… zhīshàng each row of tiles laps the one below 每一排瓦都搭接在下一排之上 
C.  intransitive verb(present participle etc. -pp-) 
① (splash) 轻轻拍打 qīngqīng pāida the lake lapped gently on the shore 湖水轻拍着湖岸 
② (overlap) to lap over; 部分重叠 bùfen chóngdié the tiles lapped over like a jalousie window 瓦片互相搭接，像是一扇百叶窗 
③ Sport 跑完一圈 páowán yī quān PHRASAL VERB lap up transitive verb[lap up something, lap something up] 
① literal 舔食 tiǎnshí the fox was lapping up water from the pond 狐狸正从池塘里舔水喝 
② figurative (accept eagerly) 欣然接受 xīnrán jiēshòu the world's media is lapping up the news 全球的媒体都在争相报道这条新闻 
lap
1 
lap

▶noun
1 (usually one's lap) the flat area between the waist and knees of a seated person: come and sit on my lap. 
• the part of an item of clothing, especially a skirt, covering the lap.
2 archaic a hanging flap on a garment or a saddle. 
PHRASES
fall (or drop) into someone's lap (of something unexpected) come someone's way without any effort having been made: not many reporters are lucky enough to have stories fall into their laps. in someone's lap as someone's responsibility: she dumped the problem in my lap. in the lap of luxury in conditions of great comfort and wealth.DERIVATIVES lapful 
-ˌfo͝ol 
noun (plural lapfuls) ORIGIN Old English læppa, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch lap,German Lappen ‘piece of cloth.’ The word originally denoted a fold or flap of a garment (compare with lapel), later specifically one that could be used as a pocket or pouch, or the front of a skirt when held up to catch or carry something (Middle English), hence the area between the waist and knees as a place where a child could be nursed or an object held.
