large 
BrE lɑːdʒ, AmE lɑrdʒ 

A.  adjective 
① (big, substantial) 大的 dà de a large country 幅员辽阔的国家 a large horse 高头大马 to take a large size 穿大号 a large fortune 一大笔财产 a large population 众多的人口 to be out in large numbers 蜂拥而出 larger than life 夸大的 she has a larger than life personality 她个性夸张惹人注目 as large as life humorous 亲自 he turned up two days later (as) large as life! 两天后他本人出现了！ 
② euphemistic (fat) 发福的 fāfú de (big) 高大的 gāodà de a large lady 丰满的女士 
③ (extensive) 广泛的 guǎngfàn de the buffet sells a large selection of sandwiches 这家自助餐厅出售多种三明治 in large measure or to a large extent 在很大程度上 by and large 总的来说 
B.  at large adjective phrase 
① (free) 在逃的 zàitáo de to be/remain at large «killer, convict» 在逃 «wild animal» 未被捕获 wèi bèi bǔhuò 
② (in general) 大多数 dàduōshù (as a whole) 整个 zhěnggè the population at large 大多数人 society at large 整个社会 in the country at large 在全国 
large 
lärj

▶adjective
1 of considerable or relatively great size, extent, or capacity: add a large clove of garlic 
the concert attracted large crowds 
the sweater comes in small, medium, and large sizes. 
• pursuing an occupation or commercial activity on a significant scale: many large investors are likely to take a different view.
2 of wide range or scope: we can afford to take a larger view of the situation.
3 Sailing another term for free ( sense
8 of the adjective). 
▶adverb Sailing another term for free ( sense
2 of the adverb). 
PHRASES
at large
1 (especially of a criminal or dangerous animal) at liberty; escaped or not yet captured: the fugitive was still at large.
2 as a whole; in general: there has been a loss of community values in society at large.
3 (also at-large) US in a general way; without particularizing: the magazine's editor at large.
4 dated at length; in great detail: writing at large on the policies he wished to pursue. in large measure (or part) to a great extent: the success of the conference was due in large part to its organizers.(as) large as life see life. larger than life see life. DERIVATIVES largeness 
ˈlärjnəs 
noun. largish 
ˈlärjiSH 
adjective large ( sense
1 of the adjective) ORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘liberal in giving, lavish, ample in quantity’): via Old French from Latin larga, feminine of largus ‘copious.’
