late 
BrE leɪt, AmE leɪt 

A.  adjective 
① (after expected time) 晚的 wǎn de he was
20 minutes late for school 他上学迟到了20分钟 it's late 时间不早了 she's had too many late nights recently 她最近熬夜太多 a late breakfast/spring 晚进的早餐/来迟的春天 to get off to a late start 晚于预定时间开始 there's late opening on Fridays 星期五营业时间会延长 late essays will not be marked 迟交的作文将不予评分 the tomatoes are late this year 今年西红柿成熟得晚 
② attributive (near end of period or process) 近末期的 jìn mòqī de in late summer/January 在夏末/一月底 the late afternoon/evening 下午/晚上晚些时候 the latest date for applications 申请的截止日期 Shakespeare's late works 莎士比亚的晚期作品 a late film 夜场电影 in the late 1950s 在20世纪50年代末 we'd better get the roof repaired, before it's too late 我们最好在屋顶还能修的时候把它修好 it's never too late to stop smoking 任何时候戒烟都不算晚 in later life (from middle age onwards) 晚年 (from now on) 日后 a man in his late forties 年近50的男子 in the late Middle Ages 在中世纪末期 late Renaissance art 文艺复兴晚期的艺术 at this late stage 在收尾阶段 
③ later comparative form, attributive (following in series) 后来的 hòulái de the matter will be dealt with at a later meeting 这个问题将在之后的会议中讨论 
④ attributive (very recent) 最近的 zuìjìn de an item of late news 一条最新消息 a late addition to this range of gardening tools 本套园艺工具中的新增产品 
⑤ attributive (deceased) 已故的 yǐgù de my late husband 我已去世的丈夫 the late President 已故总统 
⑥ attributive Botany 晚熟的 wǎnshú de ‹fruit, crop›; 花期晚的 huāqī wǎn de ‹flower›
B.  adverb 
① (after expected time) 晚 wǎn to arrive late 迟到 to go to bed later 晚一些上床睡觉 I'm running late already 我已经晚了 to start three months late 迟了3个月开始 → too 
①, → never 
A. 
① 
② (towards end of time period) 接近末尾 jiējìn mòwěi till late 直到深夜 to leave [something] late; 推迟做某事 late next year/last week 明年年底/上周末 late in the morning/afternoon 上午/下午晚些时候 late in the day (towards the end of the working day) 快下班的时候 (towards the end of the day) 晚些时候 (later than desirable) 为时已晚 (in the final stages) 在最后阶段 to work late into the night 工作到深夜 he died six months later 6个月后他去世了 we learnt later that … 我们后来才知道… he might prove helpful later (on) in your career 他可能对你以后的事业有帮助 it must be ready no later than Friday 必须在星期五之前准备好 at the latest 最晚 to marry late 结婚晚 to start learning Italian late in life 年纪挺大才开始学意大利语 see you later! 再见！ 
③ (recently) 最近 zuìjìn this law was still in force as late as 1968 这条法律直到1968年仍然有效 as late as yesterday 就在昨天 of late; 最近以来 he's been rather depressed of late 他最近相当沮丧 
④ formal (formerly) 以前 yǐqián Miss Evans, late of the Foreign Office 埃文斯小姐，以前任职于外交部 David Green, late of Kingston 大卫格林，以前住在金斯敦 
late 
▶adjective
1 the train was late: behind schedule, behind time, behindhand; tardy, running late, overdue, belated, delayed. ANTONYMS punctual, early.
2 her late husband: dead, departed, lamented, passed on/away, deceased. ANTONYMS alive, existing.
▶adverb
1 she had arrived late: behind schedule, behind time, behindhand, belatedly, tardily, at the last minute, at the buzzer. ANTONYMS early.
2 I was working late: after hours, after office hours, overtime.
3 don't stay out late: late at night; informal till all hours.
PHRASES
of late he's not felt well of late. See lately. 
