laugh 
BrE lɑːf, AmE læf 

A.  intransitive verb 笑 xiào to laugh out loud or aloud 放声大笑 to have to laugh; 不由得笑起来 to make [somebody] laugh; 逗某人发笑 don't make me laugh! 别开玩笑了！ to laugh about or over [something]; 觉得某事物可笑 we were angry at the time, but we laughed about it afterwards 我们当时很生气，但后来觉得这事好笑 to laugh to oneself; 暗自好笑 to be laughing colloquial 占优势 even if they only sell five a week, they're laughing 即使一周只卖5件，他们也赢利 to laugh like a drain colloquial 放声大笑 to laugh in [somebody's] face 当面取笑某人 to laugh in the face of [something] 对某事物一笑置之 to laugh or be laughing on the other side of one's face 转喜为悲 he who laughs last laughs longest proverb 谁笑在最后，谁笑得最久 laugh and the world laughs with you, weep and you weep alone proverb 笑时万众附和，哭时独自垂泪 to laugh all the way to the bank 轻松赚大钱 
B.  transitive verb 笑 xiào ‘of course not!’she laughed “当然不是！”她笑着说 he laughed a triumphant laugh 他得意地笑了 we laughed ourselves hoarse 我们笑得嗓子都哑了 to laugh oneself silly colloquial 笑个不停 
C.  noun 
① (amused noise) 笑声 xiàoshēng (act of laughing) 笑 xiào (response) 发笑 fāxiào to give a laugh 大笑一声 to have the last laugh 获得最后胜利 I had the last laugh over my rivals 我最终战胜了竞争对手 to get a laugh 引人发笑 
② (sth. amusing) 令人发笑的事物 lìng rén fāxiào de shìwù (target of ridicule) 笑柄 xiàobǐng (sb. amusing) 风趣的人 fēngqù de rén she likes a laugh 她喜欢开玩笑 let's go to the party: it'll be a laugh 咱们去参加聚会吧：会很开心的 to have a laugh; 觉得有趣 to give [somebody] a laugh; 让某人发笑 to be good for a laugh 令人发笑 (just) for a laugh, (just) for laughs （只是）为了取乐 her brother is a real laugh 她哥哥真是个活宝 her, offer to pay? that's a laugh! 她，主动付账？简直是笑话！ PHRASAL VERBS laugh at transitive verb[laugh at somebody/something] 
① (be audibly amused by) 因…而笑 yīn… ér xiào she laughed at his joke 听了他的笑话，她笑了起来 what are you laughing at? 你们在笑什么？ 
② (feel amused by) 对…感到好笑 duì… gǎndào hǎoxiào stop laughing at me! 别再取笑我了！ to laugh at oneself 自嘲 to laugh with [somebody], not at them 和某人一起笑，而不是取笑某人 
③ (mock) 嘲笑 cháoxiào ‹person, thing›
④ (express defiance of) 对…一笑置之 duì… yī xiào zhì zhī they laughed at our warnings 他们对我们的警告不以为然 laugh off transitive verb[laugh something off, laugh off something] 对…一笑置之 duì… yī xiào zhì zhī ‹incident, crime›
laugh 
laf

▶verb [no object] make the spontaneous sounds and movements of the face and body that are the instinctive expressions of lively amusement and sometimes also of contempt or derision: she couldn't help laughing at his jokes 
he laughed out loud 
[with direct speech] : she laughed, “Not a chance.” 
• (laugh at) ridicule; scorn. 
• (laugh something off) dismiss something embarrassing, unfortunate, or potentially serious by treating it in a lighthearted way or making a joke of it. 
• (be laughing) informal be in a fortunate or successful position: if next year's model is as successful, Ford will be laughing. 
▶noun
1 an act of laughing: she gave a loud, silly laugh.
2 (a laugh) informal a thing that causes laughter; a source of fun, amusement, or derision: that's a laugh, the idea of you cooking a meal! 
she decided to play along with him for a laugh. 
• a person who is good fun or amusing company: I like Peter—he's a good laugh. 
PHRASES
be laughing all the way to the bank informal be making a great deal of money very easily. have the last laugh be finally vindicated, thus confounding earlier skepticism. laugh one's head off laugh heartily or uncontrollably. laugh in someone's face show open contempt for someone by laughing rudely at them in their presence: figurative : vandals and muggers who laugh in the face of the law. the laugh is on me (or you, him, etc.) the tables are turned and now the other person is the one who appears ridiculous: all the critics had laughed at him—well, the laugh was on them now.laugh like a drain British informal laugh raucously. a laugh a minute very funny: it's a laugh a minute when Lois gets together with her dad. laugh out of the other side of one's mouth be discomfited after feeling satisfaction or confidence about something: you'd be laughing out the other side of your mouth if we were sitting in jail right now.laugh someone/something out of court dismiss with contempt as being obviously ridiculous. laugh oneself silly (or sick) laugh uncontrollably or for a long time.laugh something to scorn dated ridicule something. laugh up one's sleeve be secretly or inwardly amused. no laughing matter something serious that should not be joked about: heavy snoring is no laughing matter. play something for laughs (of a performer) try to arouse laughter in an audience, especially in inappropriate circumstances.ORIGIN Old English hlæhhan, hliehhan, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch and German lachen, also to laughter .
