launch 
BrE lɔːn(t)ʃ, AmE lɔn(t)ʃ, lɑn(t)ʃ 

A.  noun 
① (motor boat) 大型汽艇 dàxíng qìtǐng 
② (of ship, boat) 下水 xiàshuǐ ; (for first time) 首次下水 shǒucì xiàshuǐ 
③ (of spacecraft, satellite, missile) 发射 fāshè 
④ figurative (of campaign) 发起 fāqǐ (of attack) 发动 fādòng (of scheme) 实施 shíshī 
⑤ figurative (of product) 上市 shàngshì (of publication) 发行 fāxíng 
B.  transitive verb 
① (move into water) 使…下水 shǐ… xiàshuǐ ‹ship, boat›(for first time) 使…首次下水 shǐ… shǒucì xiàshuǐ ‹ship›to launch the dinghy 把小划艇放下水 the ship was launched by the Queen 这艘船的下水仪式是由女王主持的 
② (propel) 发射 fāshè ‹missile, torpedo, satellite›he launched a blow at his attacker 他朝袭击者打了一拳 to launch [something] at or against [somebody]/[something]; 朝某人/某物推进某物 to launch oneself at [somebody]; 朝某人扑过去 
③ (start) 发起 fāqǐ ‹campaign›; 发动 fādòng ‹attack›; 实施 shíshī ‹scheme›she is well and truly launched on her new career 她的新事业已经成功开展起来了 
④ (release) 使…上市 shǐ… shàngshì ‹product›; 发行 fāxíng ‹newspaper›to launch a new model 推出新型号 
C.  intransitive verb to launch into, to launch forth into; 开始 kāishǐ I launched (forth) into a lengthy explanation 我开始长篇大论地解释起来 PHRASAL VERB launch out intransitive verb 开始创业 kāishǐ chuàngyè to launch out on one's own 开始自己创业 he left the company and launched out on his own 他离开公司，自己创业 the company launched out into the overseas market 公司开始涉足海外市场 
launch
1 
lôn(t)SH län(t)SH

▶verb [with object]
1 set (a boat) in motion by pushing it or allowing it to roll into the water: the town's lifeboat was launched to rescue the fishermen. 
• set (a newly built ship or boat) afloat for the first time, typically as part of an official ceremony: King Gustav II Adolph of Sweden launched a huge new warship. 
• send (a missile, satellite, or spacecraft) on its course or into orbit: they launched two Scud missiles. 
• hurl (something) forcefully: she launched a tortoiseshell comb. 
• [with adverbial of direction] (launch oneself) (of a person) make a sudden energetic movement: I launched myself out of bed. 
• utter (criticism or a threat) vehemently: scores of customers launched a volley of complaints.
2 start or set in motion (an activity or enterprise): she was launching a campaign against ugly architecture. 
• introduce (a new product or publication) to the public for the first time: the company has launched a software package specifically for the legal sector. 
▶noun an act or an instance of launching something: the launch of a new campaign against drinking and driving. 
• an occasion at which a new product or publication is introduced to the public: a book launch. PHRASAL VERBS launch into begin (something) energetically and enthusiastically: he launched into a two-hour sales pitch. launch out make a start on a new and challenging enterprise: she wasn't brave enough to launch out by herself.ORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘hurl a missile, discharge with force’): from Anglo-Norman French launcher, variant of Old French lancier (see lance).
