lay
1 
BrE leɪ, AmE leɪ 

A.  transitive verb(past tense, past participle laid) 
① (place carefully) 安放 ānfàng he laid a plank across the stream 他在小溪上搭了一块木板 I laid a wreath at the foot of the monument 我在纪念碑下献了个花圈 she laid the baby in the cot 她把婴儿放到小床上 to lay the blanket on the ground 把毯子铺在地上 
② (place in specified position) 放 fàng ‹part of one's body›she laid her head on his shoulder 她把头靠在他的肩上 the dog laid its paw on my knee 狗把爪子搭在我的膝盖上 to lay a finger/hand on [somebody] (strike) 打某人 (harm) 伤害某人 (molest) 骚扰某人 if you ever lay a finger on my daughter again, I'll kill you! 你再碰我女儿一下，我就宰了你！ to lay one on [somebody] colloquial 给某人一拳 
③ (spread out) 涂 tú ‹paint, concrete, plaster›; 铺 pū ‹straw, newspaper›
④ (put in) 铺 pū ‹carpet, paving stones, turf›; 铺设 pūshè ‹railway line, cable›; 埋没 máimò ‹mine›; 砌 qì ‹bricks›to lay the foundation stone 奠基 to lay the foundations literal 打地基 figurative 打基础 dǎ jīchǔ 
⑤ (set for meal) 摆放 bǎifàng to lay the table 摆好餐具 you haven't laid a place for Anna 你没有给安娜摆放餐具 
⑥ to lay a fire; 摆放燃料生火 bǎifàng ránliào shēnghuǒ 
⑦ Zoology (produce) 产 chǎn the hens have laid
15 eggs 母鸡下了15个蛋 
⑧ (place, impose) 把…施加于 bǎ… shījiā yú to lay a curse on [somebody] 诅咒某人 to lay charges against [somebody] 指控某人 to lay emphasis or stress on [something] 强调某事物 to lay the blame (for [something]) on [somebody] （把某事物）归咎于某人 to lay it on the line colloquial 直说 
⑨ (in gambling) 押 yā to lay a bet 下赌注 I'll lay you two to one it'll rain tomorrow 我一赔二跟你打赌，明天要下雨 
⑩ (present) 提交 tíjiāo he laid his proposal before the committee 他向委员会递交了提议 
⑪ (prepare) 奠定 diàndìng ‹foundation›; 留下 liúxià ‹trail›; 制订 zhìdìng ‹plan›; 设置 shèzhì ‹trap, snare›
⑫ (settle) 消除 xiāochú ‹fears, doubts›to lay a rumour 辟谣 
⑬ (expose) 使…处于特定状态 shǐ… chǔyú tèdìng zhuàngtài ‹person›we have laid ourselves open to criticism 我们处于受批评的境地 
⑭ slang (have sex with) 与…性交 yǔ… xìngjiāo he has been laying the boss's wife 他一直和老板的老婆睡觉 
⑮ (trim) 编制 biānzhì ‹hedge›; 用…编制篱笆 yòng… biānzhì líba ‹branches, trunks›
B.  intransitive verb(past tense, past participle laid) 产卵 chǎnluǎn the hens are not laying well 母鸡现在不爱下蛋 
C.  noun 
① (position) 放置方式 fàngzhì fāngshì ; (direction) 放置方向 fàngzhì fāngxiàng 
② slang (sexual partner) 性交的女方 xìngjiāo de nǚfāng she's an easy lay 她是个荡妇 
③ slang (sex act) 性交 xìngjiāo PHRASAL VERBS lay about transitive verb[lay about somebody/something] 
① (attack violently) 猛打 měng dǎ she laid about me, punching and kicking 她对我拳打脚踢 he laid about the horse with a whip 他用鞭子狠抽这匹马 
② (strike out wildly) to lay about [somebody] (with [something]); （用某物）向某人乱打 (yòng mǒu wù)xiàng mǒu rén luàn dǎ he laid about him with a stick 他挥棒向他乱打 tā huī bàng xiàng tā luàn dǎ lay aside transitive verb[lay aside something, lay something aside] 
① literal (put to one side) 把…放在一边 bǎ… fàng zài yībiān 
② figurative (set aside) 留存…备用 liúcún… bèiyòng he has laid a bit of money aside for his old age 他存了点儿钱防老 
③ figurative (abandon, relinquish) 放弃 fàngqì to lay aside the cares of office 不再为公务烦恼 to lay aside one's personal feelings 将个人情感置之度外 lay back transitive verb[lay somebody/something back] 使…向后倾斜 shǐ… xiàng hòu qīngxié lay your head back 头向后仰 the nurse laid the patient back gently 护士轻轻扶病人躺下 lay by transitive verb[lay something by] (set aside) 留存…备用 liúcún… bèiyòng she's got a bit of money laid by 她存了一点儿钱 tā cúnle yīdiǎnr qián lay down 
A.  [lay somebody/something down] transitive verb (put horizontally) 把…放平 bǎ… fàngpíng he laid the baby down on the settee 他把婴儿平放在长椅上 to lay the blanket down on the floor 把毯子铺在地板上 
B.  [lay down something, lay something down] transitive verb 
① (put down) 放下 fàngxia he laid his racket down on the floor beside him 他把球拍放在身旁的地板上 
② (relinquish) 放弃 fàngqì to lay down one's arms 放下武器 
③ Construction 铺设 pūshè ‹cable, drain›; 铺筑 pūzhù ‹road, railway›to lay down the foundations 打地基 
④ (establish) 制定 zhìdìng ‹rule, policy›; 确定 quèdìng ‹price, wage›it is laid down in the constitution that the president must be elected by the people 宪法规定，总统必须由民选产生 to lay down the law; 制定法律 lay in transitive verb[lay in something, lay something in] 储存 chǔcún to lay in food for Christmas 为圣诞节储备食物 lay into transitive verb[lay into somebody] colloquial 
① (attack violently) 狠打 hěndǎ to lay into [somebody] with [something]; 用某物狠打某人 the champion laid into his opponent 冠军猛烈地攻击对手 she laid into me with her umbrella 她用雨伞拼命打我 
② (attack verbally) 抨击 pēngjī he laid into me, calling me a cheat 他大骂我是骗子 lay off 
A.  [lay somebody off, lay off somebody] transitive verb (make redundant) (temporarily) 使下岗 shǐ xiàgǎng ; (permanently) 解雇 jiěgù to start laying people off 开始裁员 she was laid off from her job at the bakery 她失去了面包房的工作 
B.  [lay off somebody/something] transitive verb 
① (leave alone) 停止打扰 tíngzhǐ dǎrǎo lay off her! it wasn't her fault! 别再责罚她了！那不是她的错！ lay off that poor animal! 别再欺负那可怜的动物了！ I told him to lay off my daughter 我告诉他别再骚扰我女儿 
② (refrain from) to lay off [something]/doing [something]; 停止使用某物/做某事 tíngzhǐ shǐyòng mǒu wù/zuò mǒu shì to lay off cigarettes/smoking 戒烟 jièyān lay off drinking my whisky! 别再喝我的威士忌！ 
C.  intransitive verb colloquial 停止 tíngzhǐ lay off! you're messing up my hair! 住手！你把我的头发弄乱了！ lay on transitive verb[lay on something, lay something on] 
① (apply) 用一层…覆盖 yòng yī céng… fùgài ‹glue›he laid on the plaster, layer after layer 他把灰泥一层层地涂上去 
② BrE (install) 安装 ānzhuāng ‹gas, water›you can reclaim the cost of laying on electricity and water 你可以报销安装水电的费用 
③ (provide) 提供 tígōng ‹food, transport›the organizers of the event had laid on free refreshments 活动的组织者提供了免费的茶点 the Council is laying on extra bus services in the run-up to Christmas 圣诞前市政会安排加开公交车 
④ (organize) 安排 ānpái ‹event›the villagers laid on a display of traditional dancing 村民们安排了传统舞蹈表演 
⑤ figurative colloquial (exaggerate) 使…过分 shǐ… guòfèn ‹praise, gratitude, sarcasm›she was laying on the sweetness and flattery 她极尽甜言蜜语、阿谀奉承之能事 to lay it on thick 过分地夸大某事物 sometimes he lays it on a bit thick with the sympathy 有时候他那种同情的表情做得有点太夸张了 lay out 
A.  [lay out something, lay something out] transitive verb 
① (spread out ready for use) 将…摊开放好 jiāng… tānkāi fànghǎo they laid out all the items for sale on the stall 他们把所有待售商品都散开摆放在摊位上 
② (spread out to full extent) 展开 zhǎnkāi ‹map, garment, fabric›he laid the map out on the table 他在桌上摊开地图 to lay the material out flat 把布料摊平 a green and brown carpet was laid out in the entrance area 入口处铺着一块绿色和棕色相间的地毯 
③ (design) 版面设计 bǎnmiàn shèjì ‹magazine, page, advertisement›the volume is attractively designed and laid out 这卷书的设计排版很吸引人 
④ (set out according to a plan) 设计 shèjì ‹town, garden, building›the suburb was laid out in 1937 by the town planners 该近郊住宅区是由城市规划师在1937年设计的 
⑤ (explain) 阐明 chǎnmíng ‹reasons, argument, demands, facts›all the terms and conditions are laid out in the contract 所有的条款与条件在合同中都已清楚地列明 
⑥ colloquial (spend) 花 huā ‹sum of money›he laid out a fortune on a new car 他花了一大笔钱买新车 
B.  [lay out somebody, lay somebody out] transitive verb 
① (prepare for burial) «undertaker» 为…作殡葬准备 wèi… zuò bìnzàng zhǔnbèi ‹body›
② colloquial (knock unconscious) 把…打昏 bǎ… dǎhūn he was laid out by a blow to the left temple 他的左太阳穴被打了一下，昏了过去 lay up 
A.  [lay up something, lay something up] transitive verb 
① (store) 储存 chǔcún to lay up fuel for the winter 为过冬储存燃料 
② (take out of service) 将…搁置不用 jiāng… gēzhì bùyòng my car's laid up 我的车停开了 the ship was laid up for repairs 船进坞检修 
B.  [lay somebody up] transitive verb (confine to bed) 使卧床不起 shǐ wòchuáng bù qǐ she was laid up with flu 她得了流感，卧病在床 
lay
1 
lā

▶verb (past and past participle laid 
lād
)
1 [with object] put down, especially gently or carefully: she laid the baby in his crib. 
• prevent (something) from rising off the ground: there may have been the odd light shower just to lay the dust.
2 [with object] put down and set in position for use: it is advisable to have your carpet laid by a professional 
figurative : the groundwork for change had been laid. 
• set cutlery, crockery, and mats on (a table) in preparation for a meal: she laid the table for the evening meal. 
• (often be laid with) cover (a surface) with objects or a substance: the floor was laid with tiles. 
• make ready (a trap) for someone: she wouldn't put it past him to lay a trap for her. 
• put the material for (a fire) in place and arrange it. 
• work out (an idea or suggestion) in detail ready for use or presentation: I'd like more time to lay my plans. 
• (lay something before) present information or suggestions to be considered and acted upon by (someone): he laid before the House proposals for the establishment of the committee. 
• (usually be laid) locate (an episode in a play, novel, etc.) in a certain place: no one who knew the area could be in doubt where the scene was laid. 
• Nautical follow (a specified course). 
• [no object] Nautical go or come: they had to lay aloft. 
• [with object] stake (an amount of money) in a wager: she suspected he was pulling her leg, but she wouldn't have laid money on it.
3 [with object] used with an abstract noun so that the phrase formed has the same meaning as the verb related to the noun used, e.g., “lay the blame on” means ‘to blame’: she laid great stress on little courtesies.
4 [with object] (of a female bird, insect, reptile, or amphibian) produce (an egg) from inside the body: flamingos lay only one egg 
[no object] : the hens were laying at the same rate as usual.
5 [with object] vulgar slang have sexual intercourse with. 
▶noun
1 [in singular] the general appearance of an area, including the direction of streams, hills, and similar features: the lay of the surrounding countryside. 
• the position or direction in which something lies: roll the carpet against the lay of the nap. 
• the direction or amount of twist in rope strands.
2 vulgar slang an act of sexual intercourse. 
• [with adjective] a person with a particular ability or availability as a sexual partner.
3 the laying of eggs or the period during which they are laid. 
PHRASES
get laid informal have sex. lay something at someone's door see door. lay something bare bring something out of concealment; expose something: the sad tale of failure was laid bare. lay a charge make an accusation: we could lay a charge of gross negligence. lay claim to something assert that one has a right to something: four men laid claim to the leadership. 
• assert that one possesses a skill or quality: she has never laid claim to medical knowledge. lay down one's arms (or weapons) cease fighting: they renounced violence and laid down their arms.lay down the law see law. lay down one's life sacrifice one's life for a cause: he laid down his life for his country. lay eyes on see eye. lay a (or the) ghost exorcise a ghost. 
• get rid of a distressing, frightening, or worrying memory or thought: we need to lay the ghost of the past and move ahead. lay hands on
1 find and take possession of: they huddled, trying to keep warm under anything they could lay hands on.
2 place one's hands on or over, especially in confirmation, ordination, or spiritual healing.lay (or put) one's hands on find and acquire: I would read every book I could lay my hands on.lay hold of (or on) catch or gain possession of: he was afraid she might vanish if he did not lay hold of her. lay it on the line see line1. lay someone low (of an illness) reduce someone to inactivity. 
• bring to an end the high position or good fortune formerly enjoyed by someone: she reflected on how quickly fate can lay a person low. lay something on the table see table. lay something on thick (or with a trowel) informal grossly exaggerate or overemphasize something.lay someone open to expose someone to the risk of (something): his position could lay him open to accusations of favoritism. lay over US break one's journey: Steven and I will lay over in New York, then fly to London. lay siege to see siege. lay store by see store. lay something (to) waste see waste. PHRASAL VERBS lay about someone beat or attack someone violently: they weren't against laying about you with sticks and stones. lay about one strike out wildly on all sides: the mare laid about her with her front legs and teeth. lay something aside put something to one side: he laid aside his book 
figurative : the situation gave them a good reason to lay aside their differences. 
• reserve money for the future or for a particular cause: he begged them to lay something aside toward the cause. lay something down
1 put something down: she finished her eclair and laid down her fork.
2 formulate and enforce or insist on a rule or principle: stringent criteria have been laid down.
3 pay or wager money.
4 begin to construct a ship or railroad. 
• build up a deposit of a substance: these cells lay down new bone tissue.
5 store wine in a cellar.
6 informal record a piece of music: he was invited to the studio to lay down some backing vocals. lay something in/up build up a stock of something in case of need. lay into informal attack violently with words or blows: three youths laid into him. lay off informal give up or stop doing something: I laid off smoking for seven years. lay someone off discharge a worker temporarily or permanently because of a shortage of work. lay something on informal require (someone) to endure or deal with a responsibility or difficulty: this is an absurdly heavy guilt trip to lay on anyone. lay someone out
1 prepare someone for burial after death.
2 informal knock someone unconscious: he was lucky that the punch didn't lay him out. lay something out
1 spread something out to its full extent, especially so that it can be seen: the police were insisting that suitcases should be opened and their contents laid out.
2 construct or arrange buildings or gardens according to a plan: they proceeded to lay out a new town. 
• arrange and present material for printing and publication: the brochure is beautifully laid out. 
• explain something clearly and carefully: we need a paper laying out our priorities.
3 informal spend a sum of money: look at the money I had to lay out for your uniform. lay up Golf hit the ball deliberately to a lesser distance than possible, typically in order to avoid a hazard. lay someone up put someone out of action through illness or injury: he was laid up with his familiar fever. lay something up
1 see lay something in/up above.
2 take a ship or other vehicle out of service: our boats were laid up during the winter months.
3 assemble layers in the arrangement required for the manufacture of plywood or other laminated material.ORIGIN Old English lecgan, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch leggen and German legen, also to lie1 . usage: The verb lay means, broadly, 'put something down': they are going to lay the carpet. The past tense and the past participle of lay is laid: they laid the groundwork; she had laid careful plans. The verb lie, on the other hand, means 'assume a horizontal or resting position': why don't you lie on the floor? The past tense of lie is lay: he lay on the floor earlier in the day. The past participle of lie is lain: she had lain on the bed for hours. In practice, many speakers inadvertently get the lay forms and the lie forms into a tangle of right and wrong usage. Here are some examples of typical incorrect usage: have you been laying on the sofa all day? (should be lying); he lay the books on the table (should be laid); I had laid in this position so long, my arm was stiff (should be lain). See also usage at lie1 .
