lead
1 
BrE liːd, AmE lid 
A. transitive verb(past tense, past participle led) 
① (guide, escort) 为…带路 wèi… dàilù (take by hand or bridle) 牵领 qiānlǐng I led the children across the road 我领孩子们过马路 they led us into a trap 他们引我们进了圈套 to lead the way 带路 dàilù the criminal was led away to the police station 罪犯被押到了警察局 he led the camel by a rope 他用绳子牵着骆驼 
② (be at the front of) 走在…的前列 zǒu zài… de qiánliè ‹procession, march›
③ (be leader of) 领导 lǐngdǎo to lead a discussion 主持讨论 she led the Democrats to victory 她带领民主党人获得了胜利 she led the audience in a cheer 她领着观众欢呼 to lead an operation 组织活动 
④ (be ahead in race, competition) 在…中领先 zài… zhōng lǐngxiān ‹race, league, market›; 领先于 lǐngxiān yú ‹opponent, competitor›she is leading her rival by 15 metres 她领先对手15米 to lead the field 处于领先地位 to lead the world in cancer research 在癌症研究方面走在世界前列 to lead the way (in [something]) （在某方面）领先 
⑤ (go in direction of, open on to, bring to) 引…通往 yǐn… tōngwǎng this road led us to the station 我们沿这条路到了车站 this door should lead us into the library 我们从这扇门应该可以进入图书馆 the tiger's footprints led the hunters to its lair 猎人顺着老虎的脚印找到了它的巢穴 
⑥ (steer, bring) 引导 yǐndǎo to lead the conversation away from religion 把谈话从宗教话题上引开 this course of action could lead them to disaster 这种做法可能把他们引向灾难 that line of investigation led them nowhere 那种调查方式使他们一无所获 
⑦ (cause, influence) 影响 yǐngxiǎng what led you to this decision? 是什么让你做出了这个决定？ the house was smaller than I had been led to believe 那幢房子比我原以为的要小一些 she's too easily led 她太容易受人左右 
⑧ (conduct, have) 过 guò to lead a miserable/lazy life 过悲惨/懒散的生活 
⑨ (in cards) 先出 xiān chū he led the ace of clubs 他先出了一张梅花A 
⑩ (in dancing) 领舞 lǐngwǔ 
B.  intransitive verb(past tense, past participle led) 
① (guide others) 带路 dàilù you lead, we'll follow 你领路，我们跟着 
② (go first) 走在前列 zǒu zài qiánliè 
③ (be ahead in competition) 领先 lǐngxiān Germany are leading 2-0 德国队2比0领先 he was leading by nine seconds 他领先9秒 to lead in the opinion polls 在民意测验中领先 
④ (go, provide access) 通向 tōngxiàng the track leads from the farm to the village 这条小路从农场通向村庄 this door leads into the garden 这道门通向花园 
⑤ (result in) to lead to [something]/doing [something]; 导致某事物/做某事 dǎozhì mǒu shìwù/zuò mǒu shì worn tyres may lead to an accident 磨损的轮胎可能引发事故 one thing led to another 一件事引出另一件事 
⑥ Journalism to lead with [something]; 把某事物作为头条新闻 bǎ mǒu shìwù zuòwéi tóutiáo xīnwén the Guardian led with the teachers' strike 《卫报》把教师罢工作为头条新闻 
⑦ (in boxing) 出击 chūjī to lead with one's right 用右拳出击 
⑧ (in cards) 先出牌 xiān chūpái 
C.  noun 
① (position at front of group) 前面的位置 qiánmian de wèizhi in the lead; 在前面 
② (example) 榜样 bǎngyàng to follow [somebody's] lead 效仿某人 to give ([somebody]) a lead （为某人）树立榜样 
③ (initiative) 领导 lǐngdǎo to take the lead (in doing [something]); 带头（做某事） 
④ (winning position or advantage in race, competition) 领先地位 lǐngxiān dìwèi to be in the lead; 处于领先地位 to take the lead; 领先 lǐngxiān to go or move into the lead 进入领先地位 to lose the lead 失去领先地位 they have the lead in laser technology 他们在激光技术方面处于领先地位 
⑤ (winning margin) 领先幅度 lǐngxiān fúdù he increased his lead to
10 metres 他把领先距离拉大到了10米 he has a lead of 12 seconds over the former champion 他领先上届冠军12秒 
⑥ (clue) 线索 xiànsuǒ the police have a number of leads to follow 警方有很多条追查的线索 
⑦ Theatre, Cinema (principal role) 主角 zhǔjué (performer) 扮演主角的演员 bànyǎn zhǔjué de yǎnyuán to play/sing the lead 演/唱主角 
⑧ Journalism (story) 头条新闻 tóutiáo xīnwén 
⑨ (in cards) (action of leading) 先出牌 xiān chūpái (right to lead) 先出牌权 xiān chūpái quán (card led) 先出的牌 xiān chū de pái it's Jane's lead 该简先出牌 
⑩ BrE (for dog) 牵狗带 qiāngǒudài dogs must be kept on a lead 狗必须牵住 
⑪ Electricity (wire) 电源线 diànyuánxiàn 
D.  adjective 
① (principal) 主要的 zhǔyào de she is their lead singer 她是他们的主唱 
② Journalism 头条的 tóutiáo de a lead item/article 头条新闻/文章 PHRASAL VERBS lead off A. transitive verb[lead something off, lead off something] 开始 kāishǐ to lead off a discussion 带头发言开始讨论 he led off the debate with an attack on the committee 他对委员会的抨击，拉开了辩论的序幕 
B.  intransitive verb 开始 kāishǐ to lead off with [something]; 以某事物开始 she led off with a Haydn sonata 她以海顿的一首奏鸣曲作为开始 lead on transitive verb[lead somebody on] 
① (give false hope to) 诱惑 yòuhuò ; (sexually) 勾引 gōuyǐn 
② (influence) 怂恿 sǒngyǒng to lead [somebody] on to do [something]; 怂恿某人做某事 lead up to transitive verb[lead up to something] 
① (precede) 在…之前 zài… zhīqián in the weeks leading up to the election 选举前的几个星期里 
② (culminate in) 是导致…的原因 shì dǎozhì… de yuányīn the negotiations that led up to the release of the hostages 使人质得以获释的谈判 
③ (introduce) 迂回地引向 yūhuí de yǐnxiàng he led up to the subject as tactfully as he could 他尽可能巧妙地引出这个话题 
lead
1 
▶verb
1 Michelle led them into the house: guide, conduct, show, show the way, lead the way, usher, escort, steer, pilot, shepherd; accompany, see, take. ANTONYMS follow.
2 he led us to believe they were lying: cause, induce, prompt, move, persuade, influence, drive, condition, make; incline, dispose, predispose.
3 this might lead to job losses: result in, cause, bring on/about, give rise to, be the cause of, make happen, create, produce, occasion, effect, generate, contribute to, promote; provoke, stir up, spark off, arouse, foment, instigate; involve, necessitate, entail; formal effectuate. ANTONYMS prevent.
4 he led a march to the city center: be at the head of, be at the front of, head, spearhead; precede. ANTONYMS follow.
5 she led a coalition of radicals: be the leader of, be the head of, preside over, head, command, govern, rule, be in charge of, be in command of, be in control of, run, control, direct, be at the helm of; administer, organize, manage; reign over, be in power over; informal head up. ANTONYMS serve in.
6 the home team was leading at halftime: be ahead, be winning, be (out) in front, be in the lead, be first, be on top. ANTONYMS trail.
7 the champion was leading the field: be at the front of, be first in, be ahead of, head; outrun, outstrip, outpace, leave behind, draw away from; outdo, outclass, beat; informal leave standing. ANTONYMS trail.
8 I just want to lead a normal life: experience, have, live, spend.
▶noun
1 I was in the lead early on: the leading position, first place, the van, the vanguard; ahead, in front, winning.
2 they took the lead in the personal computer market: first position, forefront, primacy, dominance, superiority, ascendancy; preeminence, supremacy, advantage, upper hand, whip hand.
3 playing the lead: leading role, star/starring role, title role, principal part; principal character, male lead, female lead, leading man, leading lady.
4 a Labrador on a lead: leash, tether, rope, chain, cord.
5 detectives were following up a new lead: clue, hint, tip, tip-off, suggestion, indication, sign, pointer.
▶adjective the lead position: leading, first, top, foremost, front, head; chief, principal, main, premier.
PHRASES
lead something off let's lead off the meeting with a few words from Mr. Diaz: begin, start (off), commence, open; informal kick off. lead someone on were you leading her on with that talk about marriage? deceive, mislead, delude, hoodwink, dupe, trick, fool, pull the wool over someone's eyes; informal string along, lead up the garden path, take for a ride, fleece, inveigle, hornswoggle, scam. lead the way
1 he led the way to the kitchen: guide someone, conduct someone, show someone the way.
2 our corporation is leading the way in new technologies: take the initiative, break (new) ground, blaze a trail, prepare the way, be at the forefront. lead up to perhaps these informal meetings will lead up to a more formal relationship: prepare the way for, pave the way for, lay the groundwork for, set the scene for, work up/around to.
