leader 
BrE ˈliːdə, AmE ˈlidər 
noun 
① (of procession) 带队者 dàiduìzhě ; (climber) 先导登山者 xiāndǎo dēngshānzhě 
② Sport (in race or competition) 领先的选手 lǐngxiān de xuǎnshǒu (in horse-racing) 领先的赛马 lǐngxiān de sàimǎ (of team) 领先的参赛队 lǐngxiān de cānsàiduì to be among the leaders 领先 
③ (organizer, instigator) (of expedition) 领队 lǐngduì (of strike, rebellion, movement) 领导者 lǐngdǎozhě (of project, operation) 带头人 dàitóurén 
④ (chief, head) (of nation, political party, religious sect) 领袖 lǐngxiù (of council, club, group, team, trade union) 负责人 fùzérén (of army, troops) 首长 shǒuzhǎng (of gang) 头目 tóumù a meeting of world leaders 世界领导人会议 
⑤ (in market, field) 领先者 lǐngxiānzhě to be a leader in [something]; 在某方面领先 a world leader in car manufacturing 世界汽车制造业的领先企业 
⑥ (of pack, herd) 领群兽 lǐngqúnshòu the leader of the flock 领头羊 
⑦ BrE (in orchestra) 首席小提琴手 shǒuxí xiǎotíqínshǒu 
⑧ BrE Journalism (newspaper article) 社论 shèlùn 
⑨ (on tape) 空段 kōngduàn 
⑩ (tree shoot) 顶枝 dǐngzhī 
leader 
ˈlēdər

▶noun
1 the person who leads or commands a group, organization, or country: the leader of a protest group. 
• an organization or company that is the most advanced or successful in a particular area: a leader in the use of video conferencing. 
• (also Leader of the House) (in the UK) a member of the government officially responsible for initiating business in the House of Commons or House of Lords.
2 the principal player in a music group. 
• North American a conductor of a band or small musical group. 
• British the principal first violinist in an orchestra.
3 British a leading article or editorial in a newspaper.
4 a short strip of nonfunctioning material at each end of a reel of film or recording tape for connection to the spool. 
• a length of filament attached to the end of a fishing line to carry the hook or fly.
5 a shoot of a plant at the apex of a stem or main branch.
6 (leaders) Printing a series of dots or dashes across the page to guide the eye, especially in tabulated material. DERIVATIVES leaderless 
ˈlēdərləs 
adjective
