leaf 
BrE liːf, AmE lif 

A.  noun(plural leaves /liːvz/) 
① (of plant) 叶子 yèzi lettuce/autumn leaves 生菜叶/秋叶 to come into leaf 长叶 chángyè to shake like a leaf 吓得哆嗦 
② (of paper) 张 zhāng (of book) 页 yè to take a leaf from or out of [somebody's] book figurative 效仿某人 to turn over a new leaf figurative 重新开始 
③ (of gold, silver) 箔 bó 
④ (of table) 活动面板 huódòng miànbǎn 
B.  intransitive verb 长叶 chángyè 
C.  -leafed /BrE liːf, AmE lif
combining form fourleaf 四叶的 sì yè de ‹clover›redleaf 红叶的 hóngyè de ‹lettuce›broadleaf 宽叶的 kuānyè de ‹ivy, grass›PHRASAL VERB leaf through transitive verb[leaf through something] 匆匆翻阅 cōngcōng fānyuè ‹pages, book›
leaf 
lēf

▶noun (plural leaves 
lēvz
)
1 a flattened structure of a higher plant, typically green and bladelike, that is attached to a stem directly or via a stalk. Leaves are the main organs of photosynthesis and transpiration. leaves Compare with compound leaf, leaflet. 
• any of a number of plant structures similar to leaves, e.g., bracts, sepals, and petals. 
• foliage regarded collectively. 
• the state of having leaves: the trees are still in leaf. 
• the leaves of tobacco or tea: [as modifier] : leaf tea.
2 a thing that resembles a leaf in being flat and thin, typically something that is one of two or more similar items forming a set or stack. 
• a single thickness of paper, especially in a book with each side forming a page. 
• [with modifier] gold, silver, or other specified metal in the form of very thin foil. 
• the hinged part or flap of a door, shutter, or table. 
• an extra section inserted to extend a table. 
• the inner or outer part of a cavity wall or double-glazed window. 
• any of the stacked metal strips that form a leaf spring. 
▶verb [no object]
1 (of a plant, especially a deciduous one in spring) put out new leaves.
2 (leaf through) turn over (the pages of a book or the papers in a pile), reading them quickly or casually: he leafed through the stack of notes. 
PHRASES
shake (or tremble) like a leaf (of a person) tremble greatly, especially from fear. take a leaf out of someone's book see book. turn over a new leaf see turn. DERIVATIVES leafage 
ˈlēfij 
noun. leafless 
ˈlēfləs 
adjective. leaflike 
-līk 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English lēaf, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch loof and German Laub .
