leak 
BrE liːk, AmE lik 

A.  noun 
① (crack) 裂缝 lièfèng (hole) 漏洞 lòudòng to plug or stop a leak 堵塞漏洞 to spring a leak 出现裂缝 
② (escape) 漏出物 lòuchūwù a gas/radiation leak 煤气/辐射泄漏 to go for or take a leak colloquial 撒尿 colloquial 
③ figurative (accidental disclosure) 泄露 xièlòu (deliberate disclosure) 透露 tòulù the source of the leak 泄密者 I don't want any leaks 我不希望走漏任何风声 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (allow liquid in or out) 漏 lòu the roof leaks 屋顶漏了 the petrol tank is leaking 汽油箱在漏油 
② (seep) «liquid» 渗漏 shènlòu ; «gas, radioactivity» 泄漏 xièlòu to leak away; 漏掉 
③ figurative (be accidentally disclosed) 泄露 xièlòu (be deliberately disclosed) 透露 tòulù 
C.  transitive verb 
① (allow out) 漏 lòu the tank has been leaking petrol 油箱一直在漏汽油 
② figurative (disclose accidentally) 泄露 xièlòu (disclose deliberately) 透露 tòulù details of the project were leaked to the press 项目的细节被透露给了新闻界 PHRASAL VERBS leak in intransitive verb 渗入 shènrù leak out intransitive verb 
① (escape accidentally) 泄漏 xièlòu 
② figurative (be accidentally disclosed) 被泄露 bèi xièlòu (be deliberately disclosed) 被透露 bèi tòulù this is sure to leak out 这肯定会泄露出去 it leaked out that there was a secret deal 据消息透露，有一宗秘密交易 
leak 
lēk

▶verb [no object]
1 (of a container or covering) accidentally lose or admit contents, especially liquid or gas, through a hole or crack: the roof leaked 
(as adjective leaking) : a leaking gutter 
[with object] : the drums were leaking an unidentified liquid. 
• (of liquid, gas, etc.) pass in or out through a hole or crack by accident: water kept leaking in.
2 (of secret information) become known: the news leaked out. 
• [with object] intentionally disclose (secret information): who had a motive to leak the story? 
(as adjective leaked) : a leaked government document. 
▶noun
1 a hole in a container or covering through which contents, especially liquid or gas, may accidentally pass: I checked all of the pipes for leaks. 
• the action of leaking accidentally: the leak of fluid may occur 
a gas leak.
2 an intentional disclosure of secret information: one of the employees was responsible for the leak. 
PHRASES
take a leak informal urinate.DERIVATIVES leaker 
ˈlēkər 
nounORIGIN late Middle English: probably of Low German or Dutch origin and related to lack .
