leap 
BrE liːp, AmE lip 

A.  intransitive verb(past tense, past participle leaped or BrE leapt) 
① (jump) 跳跃 tiàoyuè to leap across or over the stream 跃过小溪 the flames were leaping into the air 火焰蹿向空中 to leap to one's feet 赶紧站起来 the tiger leapt on its prey 老虎扑向猎物 to leap at [something] figurative 赶紧抓住 ‹opportunity› 迫不及待地接受 pò bù jí dài de jiēshòu ‹offer›to leap to conclusions 草率下结论 his heart leapt 他的心怦怦跳 
② (go quickly) 迅速移动 xùnsù yídòng he leapt into the car and drove off 他跳上车开走了 he leapt out from behind the tree 他从树后面跳出来 he leapt upstairs 他冲上楼 to leap to stardom figurative 一举成名 
③ (increase dramatically) «price, stock market» 猛涨 měng zhǎng ; «profit» 剧增 jùzēng 
B.  transitive verb(past tense, past participle leaped or BrE leapt) 跳过 tiàoguo he tried to leap the hedge on his horse 他试图骑马跃过树篱 
C.  noun 
① (jump) 跳跃 tiàoyuè to take a leap 跳跃 tiàoyuè he made it across with one leap 他一跃而过 by or in leaps and bounds figurative 非常迅速地 a leap in the dark figurative 冒险举动 a great leap forward figurative 一大进步 
② (dramatic increase) 激增 jīzēng the leap in petrol prices 汽油价格的猛涨 PHRASAL VERBS leap about, leap around intransitive verb 跳来跳去 tiào lái tiào qù leap out intransitive verb 引人注目 yǐn rén zhùmù to leap out at [somebody]; 一下子进入某人的视线 leap up intransitive verb 
① (jump up) 跳起来 tiào qilai the dog leapt up at the intruder 狗扑向闯入者 
② (rise) «prices, rates, inflation» 猛涨 měng zhǎng 
leap 
lēp

▶verb (past or past participle leaped 
lēpt
or chiefly British leapt 
lept
) [no object] jump or spring a long way, to a great height, or with great force: I leaped across the threshold 
figurative : Fabia's heart leapt excitedly. 
• move quickly and suddenly: Polly leapt to her feet. 
• [with object] jump across or over: a coyote leaped the fence. 
• make a sudden rush to do something; act eagerly and suddenly: it was time for me to leap into action. 
• (leap at) accept (an opportunity) eagerly: they leapt at the opportunity to combine fun with fund-raising. 
• (of a price or figure) increase dramatically: sales leaped 40 percent during the Christmas season. 
• (leap out) (especially of writing) be conspicuous; stand out: amid the notes, a couple of items leap out. 
▶noun a forceful jump or quick movement: she came downstairs in a series of flying leaps. 
• a dramatic increase in price, amount, etc.: a leap of 75 percent in two years. 
• a sudden, abrupt change or transition: it doesn't take a great leap of imagination to recognize that you have held an important leadership role. 
• (in place names) a thing to be leaped over or from: Lover's Leap. 
PHRASES
a leap in the dark a daring step or enterprise whose consequences are unpredictable. by (or in) leaps and bounds with startlingly rapid progress: productivity improved in leaps and bounds. leap to the eye (or to mind) be immediately apparent: one dire question leaped to our minds. leap to conclusions see conclusion. DERIVATIVES leaper nounORIGIN Old English hlēapan (verb), hlȳp (noun), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch lopen,German laufen (verb), and Dutch loop,German Lauf (noun), all meaning ‘run,’ also to lope .
