learn 
BrE ləːn, AmE lərn
(past tense, past participle learned or BrE learnt) 
A.  transitive verb 
① (through study, practice) 学习 xuéxí ‹language, skill›it's time you learned better manners! 你该懂点礼貌！ to learn [something] by heart; 记住某事物 to learn to swim 学游泳 I've learned my lesson 我吸取了教训 
② (discover) 得知 dézhī ‹news, facts›I never learned her name 我从来没有听说过她的名字 we'll soon learn whether she succeeded 我们很快就会知道她是否成功了 
③ BrE slang (teach) 教训 jiàoxun I'll soon learn you! 我很快就要你好看！ 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (acquire knowledge) 学习 xuéxí to learn about [something]; 学习关于某事物的知识 to learn from [somebody]; 向某人学习 to learn by or from one's mistakes 从错误中吸取教训 it's never too late to learn 活到老，学到老 you'll learn! 你等着瞧！ I've learnt better since then 自那之后我学聪明了 
② (hear information) 听说 tīngshuō to learn about or of [something]; 得知某事物 we only learned about or of the accident today 我们今天才听说了这次事故 
learn 
lərn

▶verb (past and past participle learned 
lərnd 
or chiefly British learnt 
lərnt
) [with object]
1 gain or acquire knowledge of or skill in (something) by study, experience, or being taught: they'd started learning French 
[with infinitive] : she is learning to play the piano 
[no object] : we learn from experience. 
• commit to memory: I'd learned too many grim poems in school. 
• become aware of (something) by information or from observation: [with clause] : I learned that they had eaten already 
[no object] : the military learned of a plot to attack the presidential compound.
2 archaic, informal teach (someone): “That'll learn you,” he chuckled 
[with object and infinitive] : we'll have to learn you to milk cows. 
PHRASES
learn one's lesson see lesson. DERIVATIVES learnability 
ˌlərnəˈbilətē 
noun. learnable adjectiveORIGIN Old English leornian ‘learn’ (in Middle English also ‘teach’), of West Germanic origin; related to German lernen, also to lore1 . usage: In modern standard English, it is wrong to use learn to mean teach, as in that'll learn you (correct use is that'll teach you). This meaning has been recorded since the 13th century and has been used by writers such as Spenser, Bunyan, and Samuel Johnson, but it fell into disfavor in the early 19th century and is now found only in nonstandard and dialect use.
