least 
BrE liːst, AmE list
superl → little 
A.  adjective 
① (smallest) 最小的 zuì xiǎo de (smallest amount of) 最少的 zuì shǎo de he has (the) least money/food 他的钱/食物最少 the least expensive car 最便宜的汽车 the least thing upsets her 一点小事都会使她不开心 
② (in negative constructions) 最轻微的 zuì qīngwēi de she didn't have the least difficulty 她没有遇到一丁点困难 I haven't the least idea what she's talking about 我一点也不明白她在说什么 the least bit 丝毫 sīháo she wasn't the least bit cross/frightened 她一点也不生气/害怕 
B.  pronoun the least; 最少量 zuìshǎoliàng nobody has much food, but you have the least 大家的食物都不多，但你的最少 it's the least I can do 这是我所能做的最起码的事 that's the least of our worries 那是我们最不在乎的事 I was annoyed, to say the least 至少可以说我很恼火 in the least 丝毫 sīháo it doesn't matter in the least 一点也不要紧 yīdiǎn yě bù yàojǐn we didn't in the least expect it 我们根本没有预料到这件事 not in the least! 一点也不！ yīdiǎn yě bù ！ 
C.  adverb 最低限度地 zuì dī xiàndù de one of the least known areas 最鲜为人知的地区之一 when you are least expecting it 在你最意料不到的时候 he did it least easily of all 这件事他干得最艰难 least of all 尤其不 nobody complained, least of all the parents 没有人抱怨，尤其是家长们 least of all would I wish to offend him 我尤其不想得罪他 not least 特别 not least because … 尤其是因为… last but not least 最后但同样重要地 
D.  at least adverb phrase 
① (not less than, if nothing else) 至少 zhìshǎo it cost at (the) least 50 euros 它花了至少50欧元 
② (anyway) 无论如何 wúlùn rúhé he's ill, at least that's what he says 他病了，反正他是这么说的 
least 
lēst

▶det. & pronoun (usually the least) smallest in amount, extent, or significance: [as determiner] : who has the least money? 
he never had the least idea what to do about it 
[as pronoun] : how others see me is the least of my worries 
it's the least I can do. 
▶adverb to the smallest extent or degree: my best number was the one I had practiced the least 
turning up when he was least expected 
only the least expensive lot sold 
I never hid the truth, least of all from you. 
▶adjective used in names of very small animals and plants, e.g., least shrew. 
PHRASES
at least
1 not less than; at the minimum: clean the windows at least once a week.
2 if nothing else (used to add a positive comment about a generally negative situation): the options aren't complete, but at least they're a start.
3 anyway (used to modify something just stated): they seldom complained—officially at least. at the least (or very least)
1 (used after amounts) not less than; at the minimum: stay ten days at the least.
2 taking the most pessimistic or unfavorable view: a program that is, at the very least, excellent PR for the hospital.least said, soonest mended proverb a difficult situation will be resolved more quickly if there is no more discussion of it. not in the least not in the smallest degree; not at all: he was not in the least taken aback. not least in particular; notably: there is a great deal at stake, not least in relation to the environment. to say the least used as an understatement (implying the reality is more extreme, usually worse): his performance was disappointing to say the least.ORIGIN Old English lǣst, lǣsest, of Germanic origin; related to less . usage: On the punctuation of least in compound adjectives, see usage at well1 .
