leave 
BrE liːv, AmE liv 

A.  transitive verb(past tense, past participle left) 
① (move away from) 离开 líkāi to leave home/the country 离家/出国 to leave the plane 下飞机 to leave school (go home from school) 放学 (finish one's education) 毕业离校 the plane leaves Rome for Madrid at 11.30 罗马到马德里的飞机于11点30分起飞 he hasn't left his bed for five days 他已经5天没下床了 please don't leave me on my own 请不要留下我一个人 I'll have to leave you now 我现在得走了 I left her cleaning her car 我离开时她正在洗车 I left the pie to cool 我把馅饼放着让它凉一凉 to leave [somebody]/[something] standing colloquial 远远胜过某人/某事物 she set off at a pace that left the others standing 她出发的速度比其他人快得多 to leave the track «train» 出轨 the words had scarcely left her lips when … 她的话刚一出口… we left the subject of finance and went on to discuss the schedule 我们把资金问题搁下，接着讨论日程安排 the smile left her face 她脸上的笑容消失了 
② (resign from) 辞去 cíqù ‹job›; 离开 líkāi ‹company›she has left the teaching profession 她已经不再教书了 
③ (leave behind) 丢弃 diūqì (abandon) 抛弃 pāoqì she left him to find his own way home 她丢下他让他自己找路回家 he left his wife for another woman 他为另一个女人抛弃了妻子 
④ (be survived by) 遗下 yíxia he leaves a widow and three children 他死后留下寡妻和3个孩子 
⑤ (cause to remain) 使处于 shǐ chǔyú they left him waiting for
10 minutes 他们让他等了10分钟 she left the baby crying 她听任孩子哭个不停 I made a couple of mistakes, but I left them 我犯了几个错误，但是没有更正 to leave the door open 让门开着 to leave it at that 就到此为止 to leave it that …; 做…的安排 we left it that he would let us know if he couldn't come 我们的安排是，如果他不能来就通知我们 how shall we leave it? 我们该怎样安排？ 
⑥ (cause) 使得 shǐde (result in) 结果是 jiéguǒ shì the illness left him with chronic bronchitis 这场病让他患上了慢性支气管炎 I was left with the impression that they didn't care 留给我的印象是他们不在乎 I was left speechless by her reply 她的回答弄得我哑口无言 the accident left him an orphan 事故之后他成了孤儿 she was left with no alternative but to sell the car 她别无选择，只能卖车 the accident left a scar on her face 事故之后她脸上留下了一道伤疤 
⑦ (allow to remain) 剩下 shèngxia she left most of her breakfast 她的早餐剩了一大半没吃 leave some wine for Jane 给简留一些葡萄酒 you've (got) eight minutes left 你还剩8分钟 
⑧ Mathematics 余下 yúxià seven from ten/ten minus seven leaves three 10减7得3 
⑨ (leave in place) (deliberately) 留下 liúxia (forgetfully) 忘记带 wàngjì dài she left the letter on his desk 她把信留在他的书桌上 don't leave your toys all over the floor! 不要把玩具丢得地板上到处都是！ she left her gloves on the bus 她把手套落在公共汽车上了 we left the notice up for several days 我们把通知贴了好几天 the postman left the parcel with my neighbour 邮差把包裹留给了我的邻居 he left a note for his mother 他给母亲留了张条子 he didn't leave his name 他没有留下姓名 
⑩ (give over for safekeeping) 托付 tuōfù (entrust) 交托 jiāotuō the children were left in my care 孩子们托付给我照看 he left his watch with his father while he went for a swim 他去游泳时把手表交给父亲保管 he left the matter in our hands 他把这件事交给我们处理 I left the report for her to write 我把报告交给她写 leave it to or with me: I'll see to it 这事交给我吧：我来处理 how the money is spent is left up to the project leader 钱如何使用由项目主管决定 
⑪ (bequeath) 遗留 yíliú she left all her money to charity 她把所有的钱都遗赠给了慈善机构 my grandfather left me £1,000 我祖父遗留给我1,000英镑 
⑫ (not accept) 不接受 bù jiēshòu to take [somebody]/[something] or leave [somebody]/[something]; 对某人/某事物持无所谓的态度 what do you think of Jenny? — I can take her or leave her 你觉得珍妮怎么样？──无所谓好不好 
⑬ (postpone) 推迟 tuīchí leave it for now: you can finish it off tomorrow 把这事暂搁一下：你可以明天完成 let's leave the washing-up till tomorrow 把餐具留到明天再洗吧 
⑭ (let be, neglect) 不做 bù zuò should I try and fix it? — no, leave it 我试着修一下好吗？──不用，放着吧 his homework often gets left 他经常不做家庭作业 
⑮ (not interfere with) 不干预 bù gānyù leave that! it's dirty! 别碰那个！脏！ to leave [somebody] to himself/herself; 不打扰某人 people need to be left to themselves at times like this 在这种时候人们需要独处 children should be left to discover things for themselves 应当让孩子们自己去探索 to leave [somebody] to it; 让某人独立完成工作 
⑯ (let go) to leave hold/go of [something]/[somebody]; 放开某物/某人 fàngkāi mǒu wù/mǒu rén the dog wouldn't leave go of my arm 狗咬住我的手臂不放 don't leave hold! 别松手！ bié sōngshǒu ！ 
B.  intransitive verb(past tense, past participle left) 
① (depart) 离开 líkāi don't leave without me 不要丢下我 it's time we left 我们该走了 the plane left for Paris at 9.45 飞机9点45分起飞前往巴黎了 
② (resign) 辞职 cízhí he left for another firm 他跳槽了 
C.  reflexive verb(past tense, past participle left) to leave oneself (with) [something]; 留给自己某事物 liú gěi zìjǐ mǒu shìwù to leave oneself short of money/time 没有给自己留足够的钱/时间 méiyǒu gěi zìjǐ liú zúgòu de qián/shíjiān 
D.  nounUncountable
① (holiday) 假期 jiàqī (through illness) 病假 bìngjià Military 休假 xiūjià to take three days' leave 休假3天 to be/go on leave 休假 xiūjià he was granted leave of absence 他获准休假 
② formal (permission) 许可 xǔkě he was granted leave to address the meeting 他获准在会上发言 by or with your leave 请允许我 without so much as a by your leave colloquial 未经许可 
③ (departure) 告别 gàobié to take one's leave (of [somebody]) formal （向某人）告别 the guests took their leave 客人们告辞了 PHRASAL VERBS leave about, leave around transitive verb[leave something about or around] (carelessly) 乱放 luàn fàng (deliberately) 放置 fàngzhì he always leaves his clothes around his bedroom 他总是把衣服扔得卧室里到处都是 I need a place where I can leave my tools around 我需要一个可以放工具的地方 leave aside transitive verb[leave aside something, leave something aside] 不考虑 bù kǎolǜ leaving aside the cost, do we actually need a second car? 且不说费用，我们真的还需要一辆车吗？ leave behind transitive verb[leave somebody/something behind] 
① (outstrip) 把…抛在后面 bǎ… pāo zài hòumian to leave the competitors behind 超过竞争对手 you'll have to walk a bit faster if you don't want to get left behind 如果你不想落在后面，就得走快一些 the teacher left us behind halfway through the first lecture 第一堂课讲到一半我们就跟不上老师了 
② (move away from) 离开 líkāi (put behind) 抛开 pāokāi the boat sailed away, leaving the coast behind 船驶离海岸 to leave one's family behind 离开家人 you must leave all that behind you and start afresh 你必须抛开那一切，重新开始 
③ (forget to bring) 忘记带 wàngjì dài (not take) 不带 bù dài he left his briefcase behind on the train 他把公文包落在火车上了 anything that is too heavy to carry will have to be left behind 搬不动的重物都必须留下 don't leave me behind 别把我丢下 
④ (cause) 使处于 shǐ chǔyú the storm left a trail of destruction behind it 暴风雨过后满目疮痍 leave in transitive verb[leave something in, leave in something] 
① (cause to remain) 留下 liúxia you shouldn't leave the plug in when you clean an electrical appliance 清洁电器的时候不应该插着插头 
② (retain) 保留 bǎoliú do you think I should take this paragraph out? — no, leave it in 你看我应该把这段删掉吗？──别，留着吧 leave off 
A.  [leave something off, leave off something] transitive verb 
① (not wear, not keep on) 不穿 bù chuān ‹coat, shoes›; 不戴 bù dài ‹hat, glasses›; 不盖 bù gài ‹blanket›I usually leave off the eiderdown in the summer 夏天我通常把鸭绒被拿掉 
② (not replace) 不重新装上 bù chóngxīn zhuāngshang (not attach) 不装上 bù zhuāngshang I think you should leave the door off 我认为你不应该装门 
③ (omit) 遗漏 yílòu I deliberately left off my telephone number 我特意没写电话号码 his name had been left off the register 登记簿上漏掉了他的名字 
④ colloquial (stop) to leave off doing [something]; 停止做某事 tíngzhǐ zuò mǒu shì I wish he would leave off whistling that tune 我希望他不要再吹那个曲子了 
B.  [leave something off] transitive verb (not switch on) 不开 bù kāi 
C.  intransitive verb 停止 tíngzhǐ has the rain left off yet? 雨停了吗？ leave off! colloquial 停！ leave on 
A.  [leave something on, leave on something] transitive verb (continue to wear) 继续穿着 jìxù chuānzhe ‹coat, shoes›; 继续戴着 jìxù dàizhe ‹hat, glasses›I'm glad I left my boots on 我很高兴没有脱掉靴子 she left her make-up on when she went to bed 她睡觉时没有卸妆 
B.  [leave something on] transitive verb 
① (not remove) 不拿掉 bù nádiào leave the lid on 不要揭开盖子 she left the pan on and set fire to the kitchen 她任平底锅一直烧着，结果把厨房烧着了 
② (not switch off) 开着 kāizhe somebody left the kitchen light on 有人没关厨房的灯 leave out 
A.  [leave out something, leave something out] transitive verb 
① (fail to include) (deliberately) 忽略 hūlüè (accidentally) 遗漏 yílòu she left out a word when she dictated the address 她口述地址时漏掉了一个词 the results of the experiment were left out of the report 报告中没提实验结果 he left out a vital screw when he reassembled the engine 重装发动机时，他漏装了一个关键的螺丝钉 the cake will taste awful if you leave the sugar out 如果不加糖，蛋糕会很难吃 
② (fail to consider) 没有考虑 méiyǒu kǎolǜ ‹fact, possibility›to leave [something] out of one's calculations/the reckoning 没有考虑某事物 leave it out! BrE colloquial (stop doing that!) 行啦！ (expressing disbelief) 别逗了！ 
③ (not bring in) 让…留在室外 ràng… liú zài shìwài to leave the wet clothes out 把湿衣服晾在外面 
④ (not put away) 不拿走 bù názǒu I left the milk and sugar out on the table 我把牛奶和糖留在桌子上 
B.  [leave somebody out, leave out somebody] transitive verb (from social group, activity) 不包括 bù bāokuò there are 25, not 24: I left Sarah out 有25个人，不是24个：我刚才没算萨拉 you can leave me out of your quarrel 别把我拉入你们的争吵中 to feel left out 感到受冷落 Barton has been left out of the team 巴顿未能入选参赛名单 leave over: transitive verb 
① to have [something] left over (as remainder) 剩下某物 shèngxia mǒu wù he had just 45 pence left over 他只剩45便士了 
② [leave something over] (postpone) 推迟 tuīchí let's leave this over till tomorrow 这事明天再说吧 I don't like leaving things over 我做事不喜欢拖拖拉拉 
leave
1 
▶verb
1 I left the hotel: depart from, go away from, go from, withdraw from, retire from, take oneself off from, exit from, take one's leave of, pull out of, be gone from, decamp from, disappear from, vacate, absent oneself from; say one's farewells/goodbyes to, quit; informal push off from, shove off from, clear out/off of, cut and run from, split, vamoose from, scoot from. ANTONYMS arrive, stay.
2 the next morning we left for Taipei: set off, head, make; set sail.
3 he's left his wife: abandon, desert, cast aside, jilt, throw over; informal dump, ditch, drop, walk/run out on; literary forsake. ANTONYMS stay with.
4 he left his job in November: quit, resign from, retire from, step down from, withdraw from, pull out of, give up; pack it in, call it quits.
5 she left her purse on a bus: leave behind, forget, lose, mislay.
6 I thought I'd leave it to the experts: entrust, hand over, pass on, refer; delegate.
7 he left her $100,000: bequeath, will, endow, hand down to, make over to.
8 the speech left some feelings of disappointment: cause, produce, generate, give rise to.
PHRASES
leave someone/something out
1 Adam left out the address: omit, fail to include, overlook, forget; skip, miss.
2 when the roster for Game
2 was drawn up, Harvey was left out: exclude, omit, pass over; eliminate, cut, drop.
