leg 
BrE lɛɡ, AmE lɛɡ 

A.  noun 
① (of person, animal) 腿 tuǐ my grandmother has a bad leg 我祖母有一条腿行动不便 to stand on one leg 单腿站立 my legs won't go any further 我的腿再也走不动了 to give [somebody] a leg up (to mount a horse) 扶某人上马 (to mount a high object) 扶某人登上高处 figurative 帮某人改善处境 bāng mǒu rén gǎishàn chǔjìng she doesn't have a leg to stand on figurative 她的论点站不住脚 to pull [somebody's] leg figurative 同某人开玩笑 break a leg! Theatre figurative 祝你好运！ shake a leg! figurative colloquial 快点！ to get one's leg over BrE slang (have sex) 性交 
② Culinary [动物的] 腿 tuǐ a roast leg of lamb 烤羊腿 spicy hot chicken legs 香辣鸡腿 
③ (of furniture) [家具的] 腿 tuǐ a table leg 桌腿 
④ (of clothing) 裤腿 kùtuǐ a trouser leg 一条裤腿 
⑤ (of journey, process, etc.) 一段 yī duàn the longest leg of the journey/race 行程/赛程中最长的一段 the final leg of the election campaign 竞选活动的最后阶段 
⑥ Sport (in darts) 一局 yī jú (in football) 一场 yī chǎng (in running, cycling) 赛段 sàiduàn (in sailing) 一段航程 yī duàn hángchéng 
B.  transitive verb (present participle etc. -gg-) to leg it colloquial (go on foot) 步行 bùxíng (walk quickly) 疾走 jízǒu (run) 跑 páo (run away) 逃跑 táopǎo I legged it to the station as fast as I could 我以最快速度跑到车站 
leg 
leɡ

▶noun
1 each of the limbs on which a person or animal walks and stands: Adams broke his leg 
he was off as fast as his legs would carry him 
[as modifier] : a leg injury. 
• a leg of an animal or bird as food: a roast leg of lamb. 
• a part of a garment covering a leg or part of a leg: his trouser leg. 
• (legs) informal used to refer to the sustained popularity or success of a product or idea: some books have legs; others don't.
2 each of the supports of a chair, table, or other piece of furniture: table legs. 
• a long, thin support or prop: the house was set on legs.
3 a section or stage of a journey or process: the return leg of his journey. 
• Sailing a run made on a single tack. 
• (in soccer and other sports) each of two games constituting a round of a competition. 
• a section of a relay or other race done in stages: one leg of its race around the globe. 
• a single game in a darts match.
4 a branch of a forked object.
5 (also leg side) Cricket the half of the field (as divided lengthways through the pitch) away from which the batsman's feet are pointed when standing to receive the ball. The opposite of off.
6 archaic an obeisance made by drawing back one leg and bending it while keeping the front leg straight. 
▶verb (legs, legging, legged 
ˈleɡd
)
1 (leg it) [no object] informal travel by foot; walk. 
• run away: he legged it after someone shouted at him.
2 [with object] chiefly historical propel (a boat) through a tunnel on a canal by pushing with one's legs against the tunnel roof or sides. 
PHRASES
feel (or find) one's legs become able to stand or walk. not have (the) legs (of a ball, especially in golf) not have sufficient momentum to reach the desired point. not have a leg to stand on have no facts or sound reasons to support one's argument or justify one's actions. on one's last legs near the end of life, usefulness, or existence: the foundry business was on its last legs.DERIVATIVES legger noun [in combination] : a three-leggerORIGIN Middle English (superseding shank): from Old Norse leggr (compare with Danish læg ‘calf (of the leg)’), of Germanic origin.
