length 
BrE lɛŋ(k)θ, lɛn(t)θ, AmE lɛŋ(k)θ, lɛnth 

A.  noun 
① Countable and uncountable(linear measurement) 长度 chángdù a river 500 kilometres in length 一条500公里长的河流 this room is twice the length of the other 这个房间的长度是另一个的两倍 
② Uncountablethe length of … (all the way along) 全长 quáncháng the whole length of the street was planted with trees 整条街上都种了树 ice had formed along the length of the plane's wing 整个机翼都结了冰 
③ Countable(of swimming pool) 游泳池长度 yóuyǒngchí chángdù to swim/do a length (of the pool) 游一个游泳池长度的距离 he does
20 lengths every morning 他每天早晨游10个来回 
④ Countable(in race) 自身长度 zìshēn chángdù the horse is two lengths ahead 那匹马领先两个马身的距离 I was two car lengths behind the other vehicle 我在另一辆车后面两个车身远 
⑤ Countable(piece, section) 一段 yī duàn a length of rope 一根绳子 to be sold in lengths of five metres 5米一段出售 a dress length 一块够做一条连衣裙的布料 
⑥ Countable and uncountable(size, extent) 篇幅 piānfú a book 200 pages in length 一本200页的书 a book the length of War and Peace 一本篇幅像《战争与和平》一样长的书 
⑦ Countable and uncountable(duration) 时间的长短 shíjiān de chángduǎn the film is three hours in length 这部影片长3小时 the whole length of [something] 某事的全部时间 a considerable length of time 很长一段时间 the length of time between two events 两件事之间的间隔 
⑧ Uncountable(quality of being long) 长 cháng I was struck by the length of his fingernails 他的指甲那么长，让我很吃惊 a war of such length 一场如此旷日持久的战争 
⑨ at length (for a long time) 长时间地 cháng shíjiān de (at last) 最后 zuìhòu he went on at tedious length about his favourite hobby 他啰啰唆唆地谈论他最大的爱好 
⑩ Countable and uncountable(of vowel, syllable) 音长 yīncháng 
B.  lengths noun plural (extent, measures) 程度 chéngdù to go to great/any/such lengths (to do [something]) （为做某事）不遗余力 they went to absurd lengths to keep the affair secret 他们为了对这件事保密无所不用其极 to go to the lengths of doing [something] 到做某事的程度 he even went to the lengths of writing to the Queen 他甚至给女王写了信 
length 
leNG(k)TH lenth

▶noun
1 the measurement or extent of something from end to end; the greater of two or the greatest of three dimensions of a body: it can reach over two feet in length 
the length of the airport terminal. 
• the amount of time occupied by something: delivery must be within a reasonable length of time. 
• the quality of being long: the length of the waiting list. 
• the full distance that a thing extends for: the muscles running the length of my spine. 
• the extent of a garment in a vertical direction when worn: the length of her skirt. 
• Prosody & Phonetics the metrical quantity or duration of a vowel or syllable.
2 the extent of something, especially as a unit of measurement, in particular: 
• the length of a swimming pool as a measure of the distance swum: fifty lengths of the pool. 
• the length of a horse, boat, etc., as a measure of the lead in a race: the mare won the race last year by seven lengths. 
• (one's length) the full extent of one's body: he awkwardly lowered his length into the small car.
3 (in bridge or whist) the number of cards of a suit held in one's hand, especially when five or more.
4 a stretch or piece of something: a stout length of wood.
5 a degree or extreme to which a course of action is taken: they go to great lengths to avoid the press. 
PHRASES
at length
1 in detail; fully: these aspects have been discussed at length.
2 after a long time: at length she laid down the pencil. the length and breadth of the whole extent of: women from the length and breadth of Russia.ORIGIN Old English lengthu, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch lengte, also to long1 .
