less 
BrE lɛs, AmE lɛs
(comparative form of little) 
A.  determiner (smaller in quantity) 较少的 jiào shǎo de I have less money than you 我的钱比你的少 less noise please! 请安静些！ he knows little German and less Russian 他几乎不懂德语，对俄语更是一窍不通 of less importance 次要的 to grow less 减少 
B.  adverb (to a smaller extent) 较少 jiào shǎo no less (surprise) 竟然 (large number) 多达 no less a person than the Prime Minister 竟然是首相本人 nothing less than 不折不扣的 it's nothing less than disgraceful 这真可耻 she's no less intelligent than you 她和你一样聪明 less and less 越来越少 to work less and less carefully 工作越来越马虎 less than 根本不 I'm less than happy about her 我对她一点也不满意 
C.  preposition 减去…之前 jiǎnqù… zhīqián he earns £1000 per month less tax 他的税前月薪为1000英镑 they finished the project in a year less
4 days 他们用一年差4天完成了这个项目 
D.  pronoun 
① (smaller portion) 较少部分 jiào shǎo bùfen (smaller amount) 较少量 jiàoshǎoliàng she's eating less than usual 她吃的比平时少 less than
5 people/£5 colloquial 不到5人/5英镑 children aged
7 or less 7岁或7岁以下的儿童 in less than no time 马上 less of … 不那么多… you're less of a fool than your sister 你不像你姐姐那么傻 less of it! colloquial 够了！ could we have less of that noise? 安静一下好吗？ 
② (sth. of smaller importance) 次要的事物 cìyào de shìwù people have been shot for less 人们曾因为小事而遭到枪杀 
less 
les

▶det. & pronoun a smaller amount of; not as much: [as determiner] : the less time spent there, the better 
[as pronoun] : storage is less of a problem than it used to be 
ready in less than an hour. 
• fewer in number: [as pronoun] : a population of less than 200,000. 
▶adjective archaic of lower rank or importance: James the Less. 
▶adverb to a smaller extent; not so much: he listened less to the answer than to Kate's voice 
that this is a positive stereotype makes it no less a stereotype. 
• (less than) far from; certainly not: Mitch looked less than happy 
the data was less than ideal. 
▶preposition before subtracting (something); minus: $900,000 less tax. 
PHRASES
in less than no time informal very quickly or soon. less and less at a continually decreasing rate. less is more used to express the view that a minimalist approach to artistic or aesthetic matters is more effective. much (or still) less used to introduce something as being even less likely or suitable than something else already mentioned: what woman would consider a date with him, much less a marriage? no less used to suggest, often ironically, that something is surprising or impressive: Peter cooked dinner—fillet steak and champagne, no less. 
• (no less than) used to emphasize a surprisingly large amount.ORIGIN Old English lǣssa, of Germanic origin; related to Old Frisian lēssa, from an Indo-European root shared by Greek loisthos ‘last.’ usage: In standard English, less should be used only with uncountable things ( less money; less time). With countable things, it is incorrect to use less: thus, less people and less words should be corrected to fewer people and fewer words. See also usage at few .
