let
1 
BrE lɛt, AmE lɛt 

A.  transitive verb(present participle -tt-, past tense, past participle let) 
① (allow) 允许 yǔnxǔ don't let the fire go out 别让火熄灭 I can't go because she won't let me 我不能去，因为她不肯同意 let me (help you) 让我来（帮你）吧 let him have it colloquial (give it to him) 把东西给他 (shoot at him) 让他吃枪子 ràng tā chī qiāngzǐ they were late home, and their mother let them have it 他们回家晚了，于是母亲骂了他们一通 
② (allow to go or be) 让…过去 ràng… guòqu let me through or past 让我过去 the curtains let the light through 这些窗帘透光 the headmaster let the children go home early 校长让孩子们早回家 
③ BrE (lease out) 出租 chūzū ‘To Let’ “房屋招租” to let a field to a farmer 把田租给一位农民 
④ (expressing command, proposal, threat, criticism) 让 ràng let it be known that … 要让大家知道… let there be no mistake about this 这个不能有差错 let me see or think 让我想一想 let him say what he likes, I don't care 随便他说什么吧，我不在乎 
⑤ (introducing a postulate) 假设 jiǎshè let the line AB intersect the line CD 假设直线AB与直线CD相交 let X equal
2 设X等于2 
⑥ (when making suggestion) [用于提出建议，涉及说话者和听众]let's or let us do it; 我们做这事吧 let us pray 我们祈祷吧 don't let's start yet, let's not start yet 咱们先别开始吧 it costs more than, let's say, a dishwasher (for example) 比如说，它的价钱要比洗碗机贵 
B.  let alone conjunction phrase 更不用说 gèng bùyòng shuō she can't even talk, let alone sing 她甚至不会说话，更不用说唱歌了 
C.  noun BrE 租借期 zūjièqī a long/short/2-year let 长期/短期/两年期租借 PHRASAL VERBS let alone transitive verb[let somebody/something alone] 不打扰 bù dǎrǎo please let that kitten alone 请不要碰那只小猫 to let well alone 别管闲事 let down 
A.  [let something down, let down something] transitive verb 
① (lengthen) 放长 fàngcháng ‹item of clothing›I've let the skirt down by
2 centimetres 我把裙子放长了2厘米 
② (lower) 放下 fàngxia ‹bucket, basket›as the other car drew alongside he let down the window 当另一辆车开上来的时候，他把窗玻璃降了下来 
③ (deflate) 给…放气 gěi… fàng qì ‹tyre›
B.  [let somebody down, let down somebody] transitive verb 使失望 shǐ shīwàng my watch never lets me down 我的手表一向走得很准 to let [somebody] down gently 委婉地把不幸的消息告诉某人 let drop transitive verb[let drop something, let something drop] 把…说漏嘴 bǎ… shuōlòuzuǐ she let drop the fact that they were already married 她无意中说出了他们已经结婚的事 let fly intransitive verb (physically) 打 dǎ (verbally) 骂 mà he let fly with his right foot 他飞起右脚踢了一下 she really let fly at me for forgetting the biscuits 因为我忘了买饼干，她狠狠骂了我一顿 let go 
A.  intransitive verb literal 松手 sōngshǒu ; figurative 忘掉 wàngdiào I let go, and the balloon floated away 我松开手，气球飘走了 to let go of the rope 松开绳子 let go of me! 放开我！ he just can't let go figurative 他就是忘不了 
B.  transitive verb[let somebody/something go] 
① (free) 让…离开 ràng… líkāi they let the hostages go 他们让人质离开 
② (release hold on) 放开 fàngkāi ‹person, arm›to let go the reins 松开缰绳 let me go! 放开我！ she made a sarcastic comment, but he just let it go 她挖苦了一句，但他没有理会 
③ (stop worrying about) 不再担心 bù zài dānxīn we'll let it go at that 这事到此为止吧 you must let the past go 你一定要忘掉过去 
④ euphemistic (from a job) 解雇 jiěgù unfortunately, we have to let you go 很遗憾我们只能让你走人 
C.  reflexive verb to let oneself go; (relax) 自我放松 zìwǒ fàngsōng (neglect one's appearance) 不修边幅 bù xiū biānfú unwind and let yourself go 放松一下 fàngsōng yīxià let in transitive verb[let something/somebody in], [let in somebody/something] 
① (allow inside) 让…进来 ràng… jìnlai he let himself in with a key 他用钥匙开门进来 
② (allow in) «tent, window» 漏 lòu ‹water, light›the roof lets the rain in 屋顶漏雨 
③ to let oneself/[somebody] in for [something] colloquial (create trouble for) 卷入某事/使某人卷入某事 juǎnrù mǒu shì/shǐ mǒu rén juǎnrù mǒu shì she let herself in for a lot of problems 她惹了一身麻烦 tā rěle yīshēn máfan 
④ to let [somebody] in on [something] (allow to share) 向某人透露 xiàng mǒu rén tòulù ‹secret›I agreed to let him in on the news 我同意告诉他这个消息 let into: transitive verb 
① to let [something] into [something] (set into surface) 把…嵌入 bǎ… qiànrù a statue let into the wall 嵌进墙壁的雕像 qiànjìn qiángbì de diāoxiàng 
② to let [somebody] into [something] (allow to share) 向某人透露 xiàng mǒu rén tòulù ‹secret›let off 
A.  [let something off, let off something] transitive verb (detonate) 引爆 yǐnbào to let off fireworks/a gun 放烟火/开枪 
B.  [let somebody off] transitive verb (punish lightly) 从轻处罚 cóngqīng chǔfá (not punish at all) 放过 fàngguò to let [somebody] off lightly 轻易放过某人 she was let off with a fine 她只是被罚款了事 I'll let you off your homework 我会免了你的家庭作业的 let on 
A.  intransitive verb colloquial 说出秘密 shuōchū mìmì don't let on! 别告诉别人啊！ don't let on about what they did 不要把他们干的事说出去 
B.  transitive verb to let on that …; 假装… jiǎzhuāng… he let on that he was a tourist 他装作是游客 tā zhuāngzuò shì yóukè let out 
A.  [let out something] transitive verb (emit) 发出 fāchū to let out a shriek 发出一声尖叫 
B.  [let somebody/something out, let out somebody/something] transitive verb 
① (show out) 送…出门 sòng… chūmén he let himself out quietly 他悄悄出了门 
② (make wider) 放宽 fàngkuān to let one's belt out by
2 holes 把皮带放宽两个孔 
③ BrE (reveal) to let out that …; 透露… tòulù… she let out that he'd given her a lift home 她透露了他捎带她回家的事 
④ (release) 放…出去 fàng… chūqu let me out! 放我出去！ → cat 
① 
⑤ (allow to flow out) 使…泄漏 shǐ… xièlòu to let the air out of a tyre 给轮胎放气 she let out a sigh 她叹了口气 let up intransitive verb 
① (stop, slow down) 停下 tíngxia the rain didn't let up all night 雨下了整整一夜 
② (ease off) 放松 fàngsōng he never lets up 他从不懈怠 what a chatterbox she is, she never lets up! 她真是个话匣子，嘴没有闲着的时候！ to let up on [somebody] colloquial 对某人更宽容 
let
1 
let

▶verb (lets, letting; past and past participle let)
1 [with object and infinitive] not prevent or forbid; allow: my boss let me leave early 
you mustn't let yourself get so involved. 
• [with object] allow to pass in a particular direction: could you let the dog out? 
a tiny window that let in hardly any light.
2 [with object and infinitive] used in the imperative to formulate various expressions. 
• (let us or let's) used as a polite way of making or responding to a suggestion, giving an instruction, or introducing a remark: let's have a drink 
“Shall we go?” “Yes, let's.” 
• (let me or let us) used to make a polite offer of help: “Here, let me,” offered Bruce. 
• used to express one's strong desire for something to happen or be the case: “Dear God,” Jessica prayed, “let him be all right.” 
• used as a way of expressing defiance or challenge: if he wants to walk out, well, let him! 
• used to express an assumption upon which a theory or calculation is to be based: let A and B stand for X and Y, respectively.
3 [with object] allow someone to have the use of (a room or property) in return for regular payments; rent: homeowners will be able to let rooms to lodgers without having to pay tax 
they've let out their apartment.
4 [with object] award (a contract for a particular project) to an applicant: preliminary contracts were let and tunneling work started. 
PHRASES
let alone used to indicate that something is far less likely, possible, or suitable than something else already mentioned: he was incapable of leading a bowling team, let alone a country. let someone/something alone see alone. let someone/something be stop disturbing or interfering with: let him be—he knows what he wants. let someone down gently seek to give someone bad news in a way that avoids causing them too much distress or humiliation. let something drop (or fall) casually reveal a piece of information: from the things he let drop, I think there was a woman in his life.let fall Geometry draw (a perpendicular) from an outside point to a line. let fly attack, either physically or verbally: the troops let fly with tear gas. let oneself go
1 act in an unrestrained or uninhibited way: you need to unwind and let yourself go.
2 become careless or untidy in one's habits or appearance: he's really let himself go since my mother died. let someone/something go
1 allow someone or something to escape or go free: they let the hostages go. 
• dismiss an employee.
2 (also let go or let go of) relinquish one's grip on someone or something: Adam let go of the reins 
figurative : you must let the past go. let someone have it informal attack someone physically or verbally: I really let him have it for worrying me so much. let in (or out) the clutch engage (or release) the clutch of a vehicle by releasing pressure on (or applying it to) the clutch pedal. let it drop (or rest) say or do no more about a matter or problem.let it go (or pass) choose not to react to an action or remark: the decision worried us, but we let it go.let someone know inform someone: let me know what you think of him. let someone/something loose release someone or something: let the dog loose for a minute. 
• allow someone freedom of action in a particular place or situation: people are only let loose on the system once they have received sufficient training. 
• suddenly utter a sound or remark: he let loose a stream of abuse. let me see (or think) used when one is pausing, trying to remember something, or considering one's next words: now let me see, where did I put it?let me tell you used to emphasize a statement: let me tell you, I was very scared! let off steam see steam. let rip see rip1. let's face it (or let's be honest) informal used to convey that one must be realistic about an unwelcome fact or situation: let's be honest, your taste in men is famously bad.let slip see slip1. let's pretend a game or set of circumstances in which one behaves as though a fictional or unreal situation were a real one. let's say (or let us say) used as a way of introducing a hypothetical or possible situation: let's say we agreed to go our separate ways.to let chiefly British (of a room or property) available for rent.PHRASAL VERBS let down (of an aircraft or a pilot) descend before making a landing. let someone down fail to support or help someone as they had hoped or expected. 
• (let someone/something down) have a detrimental effect on the overall quality or success of someone or something: the whole machine is let down by the tacky keyboard. let something down
1 lower something slowly or in stages: they let down a basket on a chain.
2 make a garment longer, especially by lowering the hem. let someone in admit someone to a room, building, or area: I had to wake up my roommate to let me in. let oneself in for informal involve oneself in (something likely to be difficult or unpleasant): I didn't know what I was letting myself in for. let someone in on/into allow someone to know or share (something secret or confidential): I'll let you into a secret. let something into set something back into (the surface to which it is fixed), so that it does not project from it: the basin is partly let into the wall. let someone off
1 punish someone lightly or not at all for a misdemeanor or offense: he was let off with a warning.
2 excuse someone from a task or obligation: he let me off work for the day. let something off cause a gun, firework, or bomb to fire or explode. let on informal
1 reveal or divulge information to someone: she knows a lot more than she lets on 
[with clause] : I never let on that he made me feel anxious.
2 pretend: [with clause] : they all let on that they didn't hear me. let out North American (of lessons at school, a meeting, or an entertainment) finish, so that those attending are able to leave: his classes let out at noon. let someone out release someone from obligation or suspicion: they've started looking for motives—that lets me out. let something out
1 utter a sound or cry: he let out a sigh of happiness.
2 make a garment looser or larger, typically by adjusting a seam.
3 reveal a piece of information: [with clause] : she let out that he'd given her a ride home. let up informal (of something undesirable) become less intense or severe: the rain's letting up—it'll be clear soon. 
• relax one's efforts: she was so far ahead that she could afford to let up a bit. 
• (let up on) informal treat or deal with in a more lenient manner: she didn't let up on Cunningham.ORIGIN Old English lǣtan ‘leave behind, leave out,’ of Germanic origin; related to Dutch laten and German lassen, also to late .
