level 
BrE ˈlɛv(ə)l, AmE ˈlɛvəl 

A.  adjective 
① (not at an angle) 水平的 shuǐpíng de (not bumpy) 平坦的 píngtǎn de I don't think this bed is level 我认为床不平 level ground 平地 a level teaspoonful of salt 一平茶匙盐 
② (at equal height) 等高的 děnggāo de the curtains are not hanging level 窗帘挂得不一样高 when the water is level with this mark, the tank is half-full 当水与这个标记平齐时，水箱就装满了一半 
③ (abreast) 并排的 bìngpái de the police car drew level with the taxi 警车追上来与出租车并排行驶 a level race 一场势均力敌的比赛 
④ (equal in achievement, rank) 不相上下的 bù xiāng shàngxià de supply should keep level with demand 应该保持供需平衡 at half-time the score was level 中场休息时比分相同 France scored the first two goals, but Italy soon drew level 法国队先进两球，但意大利队很快将比分扳平 to do one's level best 竭尽全力 
⑤ attributive (fixed) 逼人的 bīrén de ‹gaze›
⑥ (steady) 平静的 píngjìng de ‹voice, tone›to keep a level head 保持头脑冷静 
B.  noun 
① (equal plane) 水平面 shuǐpíngmiàn (horizontal line) 水平线 shuǐpíngxiàn on the level 在平地上 the garden is on a level with the floor 花园和地板在同一水平面上 
② (floor) 楼层 lóucéng ; (layer) 层 céng she parked the car on level
2 她把车停在2楼 
③ (height) 高度 gāodù the level of the river 河流的水位 to be at shoulder-level 齐肩高 to be on a level (with [something]/[somebody]) (at the same height) （与某物/某人）一样高 (abreast) （与某物/某人）并排 
④ (degree) 程度 chéngdù (amount) 数量 shùliàng (intensity) 强度 qiángdù (concentration) 浓度 nóngdù the level of alcohol in the blood 血液中的酒精含量 the level of illiteracy among school-leavers 辍学者中的文盲人数 the level of customer satisfaction 顾客的满意度 
⑤ (of a course, etc.) 等级 děngjí (standard of competence) 水平 shuǐpíng elementary/intermediate/advanced level 初级/中级/高级 to reach new levels of excellence 达到新的优秀水平 the course is below your level 这门课程难度低于你的水平 her reading ability is on a level with that of a nine-year-old 她的阅读能力相当于一个9岁的孩子 I could have retaliated, but I refused to descend to his level 我本来可以报复，但是我不愿降低身份同他一般见识 the conversation soon sank to its customary low level 谈话很快就变得同往常一样庸俗了 
⑥ (position in hierarchy) 级别 jíbié decisions that are taken at board level 由董事会作出的决定 the system was first implemented at a local level 该制度首先在地方实施 
⑦ figurative (plane) 层次 céngcì levels of language 语言的各个层面 the poem can be interpreted on various levels 这首诗可以在不同层面上进行阐释 
⑧ colloquial on the level (trustworthy) 诚实的 chéngshí de (legal) 合法的 héfǎ de 
⑨ Technology (tool) 水平仪 shuǐpíngyí 
C.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -ll- BrE, -l- AmE ) 
① (make horizontal) 使保持水平 shǐ bǎochí shuǐpíng ; (make flat) 使平坦 shǐ píngtǎn to level the ground 平整地面 
② (raze to ground) 夷平 yípíng ‹building, forest›the enemy levelled the village 敌人将村庄夷为平地 
③ colloquial (knock down) 击倒 jīdǎo the punch levelled her attacker 她一拳击倒了袭击她的人 
④ (make equal) 使相等 shǐ xiāngděng to level the score 扳平比分 
⑤ (aim) 以…瞄准 yǐ… miáozhǔn he levelled his gun at my chest 他举枪瞄准我的胸膛 
⑥ (direct) 使针对 shǐ zhēnduì he levelled an icy stare at his wife 他冷冷地注视着妻子 to level a charge at or against [somebody] 对某人提出控告 
⑦ (in surveying) 对…作水平测量 duì… zuò shuǐpíng cèliáng ‹land›PHRASAL VERBS level off 
A.  transitive verb[level something off, level off something] (make horizontal) 使…保持水平 shǐ… bǎochí shuǐpíng (make flat) 把…弄平 bǎ… nòngpíng ‹pile, mound›level the surface off by rubbing it with sandpaper 用砂纸将表面磨平 
B.  intransitive verb 
① Aviation «aircraft, pilot» 水平飞行 shuǐpíng fēixíng 
② (become horizontal) «curve» 走平 zǒu píng ; «slope, road» 变得平坦 biàn de píngtǎn 
③ (stabilize) 呈稳定状态 chéng wěndìng zhuàngtài the rate of inflation has levelled off at 8% 通货膨胀率稳定在了8% level out 
A.  transitive verb [level something out, level out something] (make horizontal) 使…保持水平 shǐ… bǎochí shuǐpíng (make flat) 把…弄平 bǎ… nòngpíng ‹pile, mound›
B.  intransitive verb → level off 
B. 
② level up transitive verb[level up something, level something up] (by raising lower object) 把…升高到平齐 bǎ… shēnggāo dào píngqí (by moving either object) 把…调整到平齐 bǎ… tiáozhěng dào píngqí some of the pictures need levelling up 有些图片需要对齐 level with transitive verb[level with somebody] colloquial 对…说实话 duì… shuō shíhuà level with me: what are my chances of success? 实话告诉我：我成功的机会有多大？ 
level 
▶adjective
1 a smooth and level surface: flat, smooth, even, uniform, plane, flush, plumb. ANTONYMS uneven, bumpy.
2 he kept his voice level: unchanging, steady, unvarying, even, uniform, regular, constant, invariable, unaltering; calm, unemotional, composed, equable, unruffled, serene, tranquil. ANTONYMS shaky, unsteady.
3 his eyes were level with hers: aligned with, on the same level as, on a level with, at the same height as, in line with. ANTONYMS uneven, above, below.
▶noun
1 she is at a managerial level: rank, standing, status, position; echelon, degree, grade, gradation, stage, standard, rung; class, stratum, group, grouping, set, classification.
2 a high level of unemployment: quantity, amount, extent, measure, degree, volume, size, magnitude, intensity, proportion.
3 the level of water is rising: height, altitude, elevation.
4 the sixth level: floor, story, deck.
▶verb
1 tilt the pan to level the mixture: make level, level out/off, make even, even out, make flat, flatten, smooth, smooth out, make uniform.
2 bulldozers leveled the building: raze, demolish, flatten, topple, destroy; tear down, knock down, pull down, bulldoze.
3 he leveled his opponent with a single blow: knock down, lay out, flatten, floor, fell; knock out; informal KO, kayo.
4 Carl leveled the playing field: equalize, make equal, equal, even, even up, make level.
5 he leveled his pistol at me: aim, point, direct, train, focus, turn, sight.
6 informal I knew you'd level with me: be frank with, be open with, be honest with, be aboveboard with, tell the truth to, tell all to, hide nothing from, be straightforward with, be upfront with; informal come clean with, set the record straight with.
PHRASES
on the level informal she is such a smooth talker, we never know for sure if she's on the level: genuine, straight, honest, aboveboard, fair, true, sincere, straightforward, trustworthy; informal upfront, on the up and up.
