liberal 
BrE ˈlɪb(ə)r(ə)l, AmE ˈlɪb(ə)rəl 

A.  adjective 
① (open-minded, tolerant) 宽容的 kuānróng de ‹person›; 开明的 kāimíng de ‹intellectual, attitude, school, laws›
② Politics (favouring liberty and moderate reform) 自由的 zìyóu de ‹views, regime›a liberal democratic party 自由民主党 
③ Liberal Politics (relating to party) 自由党的 zìyóudǎng de ‹politician, supporter, policy›
④ (generous) 大量的 dàliàng de ‹supply, helping, quantity›; 慷慨的 kāngkǎi de ‹person, offer, donation›to be liberal with [something]; 慷慨给予某物 he's very liberal with his money 他花钱很大方 to make liberal use of [something] 大量使用某物 some examiners were too liberal 有些考官给分太松 liberal coating 厚厚的涂层 
⑤ (not literal) 不拘泥字面的 bù jūní zìmiàn de ‹account›a liberal translation 灵活的翻译 
B.  noun 
① (tolerant person) 宽容大度的人 kuānróng dàdù de rén I'm a liberal as far as marriage is concerned 我在婚姻问题上很开明 
② Politics (sb. favouring liberty and moderate reform) 自由主义者 zìyóu zhǔyìzhě 
③ Liberal Politics (member) 自由党党员 zìyóudǎng dǎngyuán (supporter) 自由党支持者 zìyóudǎng zhīchízhě 
liberal 
ˈlib(ə)rəl

▶adjective
1 open to new behavior or opinions and willing to discard traditional values: they have more liberal views toward marriage and divorce than some people. 
• favorable to or respectful of individual rights and freedoms: liberal citizenship laws. 
• (in a political context) favoring maximum individual liberty in political and social reform: a liberal democratic state. 
• (Liberal) of or characteristic of Liberals or a Liberal Party. 
• (Liberal) (in the UK) relating to the Liberal Democrat Party: the Liberal leader. 
• Theology regarding many traditional beliefs as dispensable, invalidated by modern thought, or liable to change.
2 [attributive] (of education) concerned mainly with broadening a person's general knowledge and experience, rather than with technical or professional training.
3 (especially of an interpretation of a law) broadly construed or understood; not strictly literal or exact: they could have given the 1968 Act a more liberal interpretation.
4 given, used, or occurring in generous amounts: liberal amounts of wine had been consumed. 
• (of a person) giving generously: Sam was too liberal with the wine. 
▶noun a person of liberal views. 
• (Liberal) a supporter or member of a Liberal Party. DERIVATIVES liberalness nounORIGIN Middle English: via Old French from Latin liberalis, from liber ‘free (man).’ The original sense was ‘suitable for a free man,’ hence ‘suitable for a gentleman’ (one not tied to a trade), surviving in liberal arts. Another early sense, ‘generous’ ( sense
4 of the adjective), gave rise to an obsolete meaning ‘free from restraint,’ leading to sense
1 of the adjective (late 18th century).
