lie
1 
BrE lʌɪ, AmE laɪ 

A.  intransitive verb(present tense lies; present participle lying; past tense lay; past participle lain) 
① (in horizontal position) «person» 躺 tǎng ; «animal» 趴 pā the child lay fast asleep on the bed 孩子躺在床上睡得很熟 the dog lay at its master's feet 狗卧在主人脚边 to lie on one's back/front/side; 仰卧/俯卧/侧卧 to lie low 躲藏 duǒcáng to lie in ambush 埋伏 
② (be buried) 被埋葬 bèi máizàng ‘here lies John Smith’ “约翰史密斯长眠于此” 
③ (rest flat) 平放 píngfàng a fallen tree lay across the path 一棵砍倒的树横挡在路上 
④ (remain in position) 处于某位置 chǔyú mǒu wèizhi (remain in state) 处于某状态 chǔyú mǒu zhuàngtài a rug lay in front of the hearth 一块地毯铺在壁炉前面 I'd rather spend my money than leave it lying idle in the bank 我宁愿把钱花掉也不愿闲置在银行里 the book lay open on his desk 书摊开放在他的书桌上 to lie in [somebody's]/[something]'s way; 妨碍某人/某事物 the house lay empty for several months 房子空了好几个月 all his dreams lay shattered 他所有的梦想都破碎了 to let [something] lie 不再管某事物 
⑤ (as covering) «snow» 堆积起来 duījī qilai the snow lay thick on the ground 地上积雪很厚 
⑥ Nautical 停泊 tíngbó to be lying at anchor 抛锚停泊 
⑦ figurative (rank in race, competition) 名列 míngliè to lie first/second or in first/second place 名列第一/第二 
⑧ (be situated) 位于 wèiyú the village lay at the foot of the mountain 村庄坐落在山脚下 who knows what lies around the next corner? figurative 谁知道将要发生什么事？ 
⑨ (extend) 延伸 yánshēn you are still young; your whole life lies before you! 你还年轻；整个人生还长着呢！ on one side lay the mountains; on the other lay the sea 一边是连绵群山，一边是汪洋大海 danger lay all around him 他周围危机四伏 
⑩ (reside, rest) 存在 cúnzài the burden of responsibility lies on his shoulders 责任的重担落在他的肩上 our strength lies in our members' sense of duty 我们的力量源于所有成员的责任感 to lie with [somebody]; 在于某人 the blame lies with them 责任在他们身上 the decision lies with the manager 决定应由经理作出 she explained where the problem lay 她解释了问题之所在 to lie behind [something]; 是某事物的原因 
⑪ Law (be admissible) «action, appeal» 可受理 kě shòulǐ 
B.  noun 
① (position) 位置 wèizhi (direction) 方向 fāngxiàng (manner) 方式 fāngshì the lie of the streets/of the land 街道/田地的布局 
② (in golf) 球停位置 qiú tíng wèizhi PHRASAL VERBS lie about, lie around intransitive verb 无所事事地混日子 wú suǒ shì shì de hùn rìzi she just lies about all day 她一整天都无所事事 to lie around the house 在家里闲着 lie back intransitive verb 
① (horizontally) 平躺 píngtǎng 
② (lean back) 仰靠 yǎngkào lie down intransitive verb «person» 躺下 tǎngxià ; «animal» 平卧 píngwò she lay down on the bed 她躺在床上 the technology is dead, but it won't lie down 这种技术已经过时了，但还不会被弃用 to lie down on the job 怠工 to take [something] lying down figurative 甘心忍受某事物 the electorate will not take this lying down figurative 选民不会对此逆来顺受的 lie in intransitive verb 睡懒觉 shuì lǎnjiào lie up intransitive verb 躲藏 duǒcáng 
lie
1 
lī

▶verb (lies, lying 
ˈlī-iNG
; past lay 
lā
; past participle lain 
lān
) [no object]
1 (of a person or animal) be in or assume a horizontal or resting position on a supporting surface: the man lay face downward on the grass 
I had to lie down for two hours because I was groggy 
Lily lay back on the pillows and watched him. 
• (of a thing) rest flat on a surface: a book lay open on the table. 
• (of a dead person) be buried in a particular place.
2 be, remain, or be kept in a specified state: the church lies in ruins today 
putting homeless families into apartments that would otherwise lie empty. 
• (of something abstract) reside or be found: the solution lies in a return to “traditional family values.”
3 (of a place) be situated in a specified position or direction: the small town of Swampscott lies about ten miles north of Boston. 
• (of a scene) extend from the observer's viewpoint in a specified direction: stand here, and all of Amsterdam lies before you.
4 Law (of an action, charge, or claim) be admissible or sustainable. 
▶noun (usually the lie) the way, direction, or position in which something lies. 
• Golf the position in which a golf ball comes to rest, especially as regards the ease of the next shot. 
• the lair or place of cover of an animal. 
PHRASES
let something lie take no action regarding a controversial or problematic matter. lie heavy on one cause one to feel troubled or uncomfortable. lie in state (of the corpse of a person of national importance) be laid in a public place of honor before burial. lie in wait conceal oneself, waiting to surprise, attack, or catch someone. lie low (especially of a criminal) keep out of sight; avoid detection or attention: at the time of the murder, he appears to have been lying low in a barn. take something lying down [usually with negative] accept an insult, setback, rebuke, etc., without reacting or protesting.PHRASAL VERBS lie ahead be going to happen; be in store: I'm excited by what lies ahead. lie around/about (of an object) be left carelessly out of place: there were pills and potions lying around in every corner of the house. 
• (of a person) pass the time lazily or aimlessly: you all just lay around all day on your backsides, didn't you? lie behind be the real, often hidden, reason for (something): a subtle strategy lies behind such silly claims. lie in British remain in bed after the normal time for getting up. 
• archaic (of a pregnant woman) go to bed to give birth. lie off Nautical (of a ship) stand some distance from shore or from another ship. lie to Nautical (of a ship) come almost to a stop with its head toward the wind. lie with
1 (of a responsibility or problem) be attributable to (someone): the ultimate responsibility for the violence lies with the country's president.
2 archaic have sexual intercourse with.ORIGIN Old English licgan, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch liggen and German liegen, from an Indo-European root shared by Greek lektron, lekhos and Latin lectus ‘bed.’ usage: The verb lie (‘assume a horizontal or resting position’) is often confused with the verb lay (‘put something down’), giving rise to incorrect uses such as he is laying on the bed (correct use is he is lying on the bed) or why don't you lie the suitcase on the bed? (correct use is why don't you lay the suitcase on the bed?). The confusion is only heightened by the fact that lay is not only the base form of to lay, but is also the past tense of to lie, so while he is laying on the bed is incorrect, he lay on the bed yesterday is quite correct. For more discussion of these lie and lay verb forms, see usage at lay1 .
