life 
BrE lʌɪf, AmE laɪf 
noun(plural lives) 
① Countable and uncountable(of people, animals, plants) 生命 shēngmìng (existence) 生存 shēngcún life and death 生与死 to bring [somebody]/[something] (back) to life (revive sb./sth. appearing to be dead) 使某人/某物苏醒 (revive sb./sth. that has died) 使某人/某物复活 to come (back) to life (return from death) 复活 (become lively) 变得活跃 to frighten the life out of [somebody] 把某人吓得魂飞魄散 the journalists had been pestering the life out of him 那些记者一直纠缠他，令他不胜其烦 his life is at stake 他性命堪忧 to risk one's life 冒生命危险 to lose one's life 丧生 4,000 lives were lost in the earthquake 有4,000人在这场地震中丧生 to take [somebody's] life 杀死某人 to take one's (own) life 自杀 to take one's life in one's hands 冒生命危险 to lay down one's life (for [somebody]/[something]) （为某人/某事物）牺牲自己的生命 to lay down one's life for one's country 为国捐躯 to give one's life 献出生命 for one's life, for dear life 拼命地 for the life of me/him etc. colloquial 无论如何 not on your life! colloquial 决不！ to make an attempt on [somebody's] life; 企图杀死某人 
② Uncountable(living things) 生物 shēngwù there was no sign of life 没有生命迹象 plant/animal life 植物/动物 bird/insect/human life 鸟类/昆虫类/人类 
③ Countable and uncountable(period from birth to death) 一生 yīshēng (part of this period) 一生中的部分时间 yīshēng zhōng de bùfen shíjiān the insect has a relatively short life 昆虫的寿命较短 all one's life 一辈子 adult/early life 成年/幼年 the rest of one's life 余生 to start a new life 开始新生活 in this life and the next 今生和来世 at [somebody's] time of life 在某人这个年纪 for life 终身 she gave him the shock of his life 她让他感到了前所未有的震惊 the time of one's life 特别愉快的时光 the children were having the time of their lives 孩子们玩得特别高兴 before noun 终身的 zhōngshēn de life membership 终身会员身份 
④ Countable and uncountable(social activity, lifestyle) 生活经历 shēnghuó jīnglì to have a hard life 生活艰难 private/family life 私生活/家庭生活 the man/woman in [somebody's] life 某人生活中的男人/女人 the life and times of [somebody] 某人的生平 modern/country/college/political life 现代/乡村/大学/政治生活 way of life 生活方式 this is the life! 这才叫生活！ that's the life for me! 那就是我的生活方式！ what a life! 生活不易啊！ 
⑤ Countable(purpose of one's existence) 人生目的 rénshēng mùdì singing is her life 唱歌是她的生命 his son is his life 儿子是他的命根子 
⑥ Uncountable(as general concept) 生活 shēnghuó life in general 日常生活 how's life? 最近过得怎么样？ don't make life too difficult for yourself 不要自找麻烦 life had passed her by 她没有得到生活的眷顾 life goes on, life must go on 生活还是要继续 that's life! 生活就是这样！ such is life! 这就是生活！ life is too short for [something]/for doing [something] 人生苦短，不应浪费在某事物/做某事上 
⑦ Uncountable(ways of living) 社会生活 shèhuì shēnghuó to see life 见世面 from all walks of life 来自各行各业 
⑧ UncountableArt (model) 实物 shíwù to draw from life 写生 xiěshēng 
⑨ Uncountable(animation, vigour) 活力 huólì there was no life in her voice 她的声音有气无力 to bring [something] to life; (make lively) 使某事物更生动 (make realistic) 使某事物显得逼真 the actor brought the character to life 那位演员把人物演活了 to come to life; (become animated) 变得活跃 (become realistic) 显得逼真 exhibitions that make history come to life 生动再现历史的展览 the engine roared into life 引擎隆隆几声发动起来 to put life into [somebody]/[something]; 为某人/某物注入活力 
⑩ Uncountable(useful duration) (of machine, clothes, vehicle) 使用期 shǐyòngqī (of organization, institution) 存在期 cúnzàiqī (of licence) 有效期 yǒuxiàoqī during the life of the last government 在上届政府执政期间 how much life is left in them? 它们还能用多久？ 
⑪ Uncountablecolloquial (life imprisonment) 无期徒刑 wúqī túxíng to give [somebody] life; 判某人无期徒刑 to do life; 服无期徒刑 
⑫ Countable(biography) 传记 zhuànjì a life of [somebody] 某人的传记 
⑬ CountableGames 命 mìng [指玩家出局前的机会]I've got two lives left 我还剩2条命 
life 
līf

▶noun (plural lives 
līvz
)
1 the condition that distinguishes animals and plants from inorganic matter, including the capacity for growth, reproduction, functional activity, and continual change preceding death: the origins of life. 
• living things and their activity: some sort of life existed on Mars 
lower forms of life 
the ice-cream vendors were the only signs of life. 
• [with adjective or noun modifier] a particular type or aspect of people's existence: an experienced teacher will help you settle into school life 
revelations about his private life 
his father decided to start a new life in California. 
• vitality, vigor, or energy: she was beautiful and full of life.
2 the existence of an individual human being or animal: a disaster that claimed the lives of 266 Americans 
she didn't want to die; she loved life. 
• a biography: a life of Shelley. 
• either of the two states of a person's existence separated by death (as in Christianity and some other religious traditions): too much happiness in this life could reduce the chances of salvation in the next. 
• any of a number of successive existences in which a soul is held to be reincarnated (as in Hinduism and some other religious traditions). 
• a chance to live after narrowly escaping death (especially with reference to the nine lives traditionally attributed to cats).
3 (usually one's life) the period between the birth and death of a living thing, especially a human being: she has lived all her life in the country 
I want to be with you for the rest of my life 
they became friends for life. 
• the period during which something inanimate or abstract continues to exist, function, or be valid: underlay helps to prolong the life of a carpet. 
• informal a sentence of imprisonment for life.
4 (in art) the depiction of a subject from a real model, rather than from an artist's imagination: the pose and clothing were sketched from life 
[as modifier] : life drawing. See also still life. 
PHRASES
bring (or come) to life regain or cause to regain consciousness or return as if from death: all this was of great interest to her, as if she were coming to life after a long sleep. 
• (with reference to a fictional character or inanimate object) cause or seem to be alive or real: he brings the character of MacDonald to life with power and precision 
all the puppets came to life again. 
• make or become active, lively, or interesting: soon, with the return of the peasants and fishermen, the village comes to life again 
you can bring any room to life with these coordinating cushions. do anything for a quiet life make any concession to avoid being disturbed. for dear (or one's) life as if or in order to escape death: I clung to the tree for dear life 
Sue struggled free and ran for her life. for the life of me informal however hard I try; even if my life depended on it: I can't for the life of me understand what it is you see in that place. frighten the life out of terrify. get a life [often in imperative] informal start living a fuller or more interesting existence: if he's a lout, then get yourself out of there and get a life. give one's life for die for. (as) large as life informal used to emphasize that a person is conspicuously present: he was standing nearby, large as life. larger than life (of a person) attracting special attention because of unusual and flamboyant appearance or behavior: Scorsese's stories have always featured larger-than-life characters. 
• (of a thing) seeming disproportionately important: your problems seem larger than life at that time of night. life and limb see limb1. the life of the party a vivacious and sociable person.life in the fast lane see fast lane. one's life's work the work (especially that of an academic or artistic nature) accomplished in or pursued throughout someone's lifetime. lose one's life be killed: he lost his life in a car accident. a matter of life and death a matter of vital importance. not on your life informal said to emphasize one's refusal to comply with a request: “I want to see Clare alone.” “Not on your life,” said Buzz. save someone's (or one's own) life prevent someone's (or one's own) death: the driver of the truck managed to save his life by leaping out of the cab. 
• informal provide much-needed relief from boredom or a difficult situation. see life gain a wide experience of the world, especially its more pleasurable aspects. take one's life in one's own hands risk being killed. take someone's (or one's own) life kill someone (or oneself). that's life an expression of one's acceptance of a situation, however difficult: we'll miss each other, but still, that's life. this is the life an expression of contentment with one's present circumstances: Ice cubes clinked in crystal glasses. “This is the life,” she said. to the life exactly like the original: there he was, Nathan to the life, sitting at a table. to save one's life [with modal and negative] even if one's life were to depend on it: she couldn't stop crying now to save her life.ORIGIN Old English līf, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch lijf,German Leib ‘body,’ also to live1 .
