lift 
BrE lɪft, AmE lɪft 

A.  transitive verb 
① (pick up) 拿起 náqǐ ‹plate, glass, book›; 抱起 bàoqǐ ‹child›; 提起 tíqǐ ‹suitcase›the piano was too heavy for us to lift 这架钢琴太重了，我们抬不动 these containers can be lifted only by the most powerful cranes 这些集装箱只有最强力的起重机才能吊起来 she lifted the heavy box down from the shelf 她把那个重盒子从架子上搬了下来 one, two, three, lift! 一、二、三，起！ 
② (raise) 抬起 táiqǐ ‹leg, head›; 举起 jǔqǐ ‹arm, hand›he lifted his feet off the stool 他把脚从凳子上放下来 he never lifted his head from his book 他一直埋头看书 
③ Military (airlift) 空运 kōngyùn three men were lifted off the burning ship by helicopter 有3个人被直升机从燃烧的船上吊起救走了 
④ (end) 撤销 chèxiāo ‹ban, sanctions, curfew›; 解除 jiěchú ‹embargo, siege›
⑤ (remove) 去除 qùchú this reprieve lifts a great deal of the pressure off him 这份缓刑令让他感觉轻松了不少 I feel as if a great weight has been lifted from my mind 我觉得思想上好像如释重负 
⑥ (boost) 鼓舞 gǔwǔ this piece of luck lifted his spirits 这点运气振奋了他的情绪 to lift the football team 鼓舞足球队的士气 
⑦ BrE colloquial (steal) 偷盗 tōudào he lifted the document from my briefcase 他从我的公文包里偷走了那份文件 
⑧ (plagiarize) 剽窃 piāoqiè to lift an idea from another author 剽窃另一位作者的观点 she lifted her article from another magazine 她的文章是从另一本杂志上抄来的 
⑨ Sport (win) 赢得 yíngdé ‹trophy, title›
⑩ (improve) 改进 gǎijìn ‹game, performance›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (improve) 受到鼓舞 shòudào gǔwǔ her spirits began to lift 她的情绪开始好转 my heart lifted at the news 这个消息让我很高兴 
② (end) «depression, bad mood» 消失 xiāoshī ; «headache» 停止 tíngzhǐ 
③ (dissipate) «fog, clouds» 消散 xiāosàn 
C.  noun 
① Countable BrE (elevator) 电梯 diàntī to take the lift to the sixth floor 乘电梯到7楼 
② Countable(ride) 免费乘车 miǎnfèi chéngchē to give [somebody] a lift; 让某人搭车 to get a lift from or off or with [somebody]; 搭某人的车 I thumbed or hitched a lift (home/to the railway station) 我搭了便车（回家/去火车站） 
③ Countable(boost) 鼓舞 gǔwǔ to give [somebody] a tremendous lift 给某人极大的鼓舞 
④ CountableSport (in weightlifting) 举 jǔ each competitor has three lifts 每位选手有3次试举机会 
⑤ UncountableAviation 升力 shēnglì PHRASAL VERBS lift off 
A.  intransitive verb «rocket, spaceship» 发射 fāshè 
B.  transitive verb[lift something/somebody off, lift off something/somebody] 揭掉 jiēdiào ‹lid, cover, roof›; 吊起 diàoqǐ ‹person›we carefully lifted the beam off his leg 我们小心翼翼地把那根屋梁木从他腿上移开了 the climbers had to be lifted off by helicopter 攀登者只得由直升机吊起救走 lift up 
A.  transitive verb[lift up something, lift something up] 举起 jǔqǐ ‹trophy, arm›; 抱起 bàoqǐ ‹person›; 撩起 liāoqǐ ‹skirt›; 掀起 xiānqǐ ‹carpet›; 抬起 táiqǐ ‹head, foot, elbow›lift that box up on to the shelf 把那只箱子搬到架子上 
B.  intransitive verb «lid» 被揭开 bèi jiēkāi ; «flap» 被掀起 bèi xiānqǐ ; «seat» 被抬起 bèi táiqǐ 
lift 
lift

▶verb [with object]
1 raise to a higher position or level: he lifted his trophy over his head. 
• move (one's eyes or face) to face upward and look at someone or something: he lifted his eyes from the paper for an instant. 
• increase the volume or pitch of (one's voice): Willie sang boldly, lifting up his voice. 
• increase (a price or amount): higher than expected oil prices lifted Oklahoma's revenue. 
• transport by air: a helicopter lifted
11 crew members to safety from the ship. 
• hit or kick (a ball) high into the air. 
• [no object] move upward; be raised: Thomas's eyelids drowsily lifted 
their voices lifted in wails and cries. 
• [no object] (of a cloud, fog, etc.) move upward or away: the factory smoke hung low, never lifted 
the gray weather lifted on the following Wednesday. 
• perform cosmetic surgery on (especially the face or breasts) to reduce sagging: surgeons lift and remove excess skin from the face and neck.
2 pick up and move to a different position: he lifted her down from the pony's back. 
• enable (someone or something) to escape from an unpleasant situation: two billion barrels of oil that could lift this nation out of chronic poverty.
3 raise (a person's spirits or confidence); encourage or cheer: we heard inspiring talks that lifted our spirits. 
• [no object] (of a person's mood) become happier: suddenly his heart lifted, and he could have wept with relief.
4 formally remove or end (a legal restriction, decision, or ban): the European Community lifted its oil embargo against South Africa.
5 informal steal (something, especially a minor item of property): the shirt she had lifted from a supermarket. 
• use (a person's work or ideas) without permission or acknowledgment; plagiarize: this is a hackneyed adventure lifted straight from a vintage Lassie episode. 
▶noun
1 a device incorporating a moving cable for carrying people, typically skiers, up or down a mountain. 
• British term for elevator. 
• a built-up heel or device worn in a boot or shoe to make the wearer appear taller or to correct shortening of a leg.
2 an act of lifting: weightlifters attempting a particularly heavy lift. 
• a rise in price or amount: the company has already produced a
10 percent lift in profits. 
• informal an instance of stealing or plagiarizing something. 
• an upward force that counteracts the force of gravity, produced by changing the direction and speed of a moving stream of air: it had separate engines to provide lift and generate forward speed. 
• the maximum weight that an aircraft can raise.
3 a free ride in another person's vehicle: Miss Green is giving me a lift back to school.
4 a feeling of encouragement or increased cheerfulness: winning this game has given everyone on the team a lift. 
PHRASES
lift a finger (or hand) [usually with negative] make the slightest effort to do something, especially to help someone: he never once lifted a finger to get Jimmy released from prison.lift his (or its) leg informal (of a male dog) urinate.PHRASAL VERBS lift off (of an aircraft, spacecraft, or rocket) rise from the ground or a launch pad, especially vertically.DERIVATIVES liftable adjective. lifter nounORIGIN Middle English: from Old Norse lypta, of Germanic origin; related to loft .
