light
1 
BrE lʌɪt, AmE laɪt 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(brightness) 光亮 guāngliàng (from a source) 光线 guāngxiàn by the light of the sun 借着阳光 the light is too bright/dim 光线太亮/暗 to cast or shed or throw light (on [something]); 投射光线（在某物上） to stand with one's back to the light 背光站着 to be/stand/sit in [somebody's] light; 挡住某人的光线 → tunnel 
A. 
① 
② Countable(gleam, bright point) 光点 guāngdiǎn she saw a light in the distance 她看见远处有一点亮光 the lights of the city 城市的灯火 
③ Countablefigurative (aspect) 角度 jiǎodù in a good/favourable/new/different light 从好的/有利的/新的/不同的角度 they saw him in the worst light 他们看到了他最糟糕的一面 in the light of [something] figurative 考虑到某事物 the decision was made in the light of previous experience 决定是根据以前的经验作出的 
④ Uncountable(daylight) 日光 rìguāng to go home in the light 在天黑前回家 the light was beginning to fail 天色渐暗 the light of day literal 日光 rìguāng figurative 光天化日 guāng tiān huà rì things may be different in the light of day 第二天醒来事情也许会有所不同 
⑤ Countable(electrical appliance) 灯 dēng (brightness of appliance) 灯光 dēngguāng to put or turn or switch a light on 开灯 to put or turn or switch a light off or out 关灯 no talking after lights out 熄灯后禁止说话 to turn a light up/down 把灯光调亮/暗 to go or be out like a light colloquial (fall asleep quickly) 很快入睡 (become unconscious) 失去知觉 
⑥ lights plural (headlights) 车灯 chēdēng to put or turn or switch one's lights on/off; 打开/关上车灯 
⑦ (traffic light) 交通信号灯 jiāotōng xìnhàodēng to go through a red light 闯红灯 the lights are green 现在是绿灯 the lights were against me 我遇到了红灯 
⑧ lights plural (decorative display) 彩灯 cǎidēng the Christmas lights 圣诞节灯饰 
⑨ Countable and uncountable(flame) 火 huǒ to set light to [something], to put a light to [something]; 点燃某物 to strike a light 划出火来 have you got a light? 你有火吗？ 
⑩ Countable(glint in eye) 目光 mùguāng there was a mischievous light in her eyes 她目光中透着一丝顽皮 
⑪ Uncountablefigurative (enlightenment) 启发 qǐfā to see the light (understand) 明白过来 (in religion) 改变信仰 to cast or shed or throw light on [something] figurative 使某事物更容易理解 this research has cast new light on the causes of the disease 这项研究使人们对这种疾病的病因有了新的认识 
⑫ Uncountableto bring [something] to light (reveal) 披露某事物 pīlù mǒu shìwù our investigation brought to light some important facts 我们的调查揭露了一些重要的事实 to come to light; 为人所知 wéi rén suǒ zhī the conspiracy came to light 阴谋败露了 yīnmóu bàilù le 
⑬ Uncountable(happiness) 幸福 xìngfú (hope) 希望 xīwàng he brought light into their lives 他给他们的生活带来了快乐 the light of [somebody's] life 某人的最爱 
⑭ lights plural according to one's lights, by one's (own) lights (in conformity with one's beliefs) 根据自己的看法 gēnjù zìjǐ de kànfa (in conformity with one's attitudes) 根据自己的态度 gēnjù zìjǐ de tàidu (in conformity with one's ability) 根据自己的能力 gēnjù zìjǐ de nénglì to do one's best according to one's lights 尽力而为 jìnlì ér wéi 
⑮ CountableConstruction (window) 窗 chuāng (opening) 采光孔 cǎiguāngkǒng (division of a window) 窗格 chuānggé (pane of glass) 窗格玻璃 chuānggé bōli 
B.  adjective 
① (bright) 光线充足的 guāngxiàn chōngzú de ‹place›; 有日光的 yǒu rìguāng de ‹morning, sky›a light room 明亮的房间 it isn't light enough to take a photograph 光线不足，无法拍照 it gets light earlier at this time of year 一年中的这个时节，天亮得比较早 it's light 天亮了 
② (pale) 浅色的 qiǎnsè de to wear light colours 穿浅色衣服 a light-blue flower 淡蓝色的花 their skin is lighter 他们的肤色浅一些 
C.  transitive verb(past tense, past participle lit or lighted) 
① (illuminate) 照亮 zhàoliàng the headlamps lit the road ahead 车头灯照亮了前方的路 to light the way with a torch 用手电筒照路 
② (set fire to) 点燃 diǎnrán to light a match/a bonfire 划燃一根火柴/燃起篝火 
③ (switch on) 打开 dǎkāi ‹light, torch, sign›
D.  intransitive verb(past tense, past participle lit or lighted) 开始燃烧 kāishǐ ránshāo the oven won't light 炉子点不着 PHRASAL VERB light up 
A.  transitive verb[light up something, light something up] 
① (illuminate) 照亮 zhàoliàng the shop windows were lit up 商店橱窗灯火通明 
② (set fire to) 点燃 diǎnrán ‹cigarette, cigar, pipe›
③ figurative (make animated) 使发亮 shǐ fāliàng a rare smile lit up his stern features 他严肃的面庞上露出了难得一见的笑容 his face was lit up with happiness 他脸上喜气洋洋 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (become illuminated) «light, panel» 发光 fāguāng the lamps lit up 灯亮了 
② (light cigarette) 开始吸烟 kāishǐ xīyān 
③ figurative (become animated) 面露喜色 miàn lù xǐsè she opened the present, and her face lit up 她打开礼物，面露喜色 her eyes lit up with excitement 她眼中闪着兴奋的光 
light
1 
līt

▶noun
1 the natural agent that stimulates sight and makes things visible: the light of the sun 
[in singular] : the street lamps shed a faint light into the room. 
• a source of illumination, especially an electric lamp: a light came on in his room. 
• (lights) decorative illuminations: Christmas lights. 
• a traffic light: turn right at the light. 
• [in singular] an expression in someone's eyes indicating a particular emotion or mood: a shrewd light entered his eyes. 
• the amount or quality of light in a place: the plant requires good light 
in some lights she could look beautiful. Visible light is electromagnetic radiation whose wavelength falls within the range to which the human retina responds, i.e., between about 390 nm (violet light) and 740 nm (red). White light consists of a roughly equal mixture of all visible wavelengths, which can be separated to yield the colors of the spectrum, as was first demonstrated conclusively by Newton. In the 20th century it has become apparent that light consists of energy quanta called photons that behave partly like waves and partly like particles. The velocity of light in a vacuum is 299,792 km per second.
2 understanding of a problem or mystery; enlightenment: she saw light dawn on the woman's face. 
• spiritual illumination by divine truth. 
• (lights) a person's opinions, standards, and abilities: leaving the police to do the job according to their lights.
3 an area of something that is brighter or paler than its surroundings: sunshine will brighten the natural lights in your hair.
4 a device that makes something start burning, as a match, lighter, or flame: he asked me for a light.
5 a window or opening in a wall to let light in. 
• any of the perpendicular divisions of a mullioned window. 
• any of the panes of glass forming the roof or side of a greenhouse or the top of a cold frame.
6 a person notable or eminent in a particular sphere of activity or place: such lights of liberalism as the historian Goldwin Smith. 
▶verb (past lit 
lit
; past participle lit or lighted) [with object]
1 provide with light or lighting; illuminate: the room was lighted by a number of small lamps 
lightning suddenly lit up the house. 
• switch on (an electric light): only one of the table lamps was lit. 
• [no object] (light up) become illuminated: the sign to fasten seat belts lit up.
2 make (something) start burning; ignite: Allen gathered sticks and lit a fire 
(as adjective lighted or lit) : a lighted cigarette. 
• [no object] begin to burn; be ignited: the gas wouldn't light properly. 
• (light something up) ignite a cigarette, cigar, or pipe and begin to smoke it: she lit up a cigarette and puffed on it serenely 
[no object] : workers who light up in prohibited areas face dismissal. 
▶adjective
1 having a considerable or sufficient amount of natural light; not dark: the bedrooms are light and airy 
it was almost light outside.
2 (of a color) pale: her eyes were light blue. 
PHRASES
bring (or come) to light make (or become) widely known or evident: an investigation to bring to light examples of extravagant expenditure. go out like a light informal fall asleep or lose consciousness suddenly. in a —— light in the way specified; so as to give a specified impression: the audit portrayed the company in a very favorable light. in (the) light of drawing knowledge or information from; taking (something) into consideration: the exorbitant prices are explainable in the light of the facts.light a fire under someone see fire. light at the end of the tunnel a long-awaited indication that a period of hardship or adversity is nearing an end. light the fuse see fuse2. the light of day daylight. 
• general public attention: bringing old family secrets into the light of day. the light of someone's life a much loved person. the lights are on, but nobody's (or no one's) home used to suggest that a person lacks intelligence or awareness: looking into their eyes, it's a clear case of the lights are on, but nobody's home. lights out bedtime in a school dormitory, military barracks, or other institution, when lights should be switched off. lit up informal, dated drunk. see the light understand or realize something after prolonged thought or doubt. 
• undergo religious conversion. see the light of day be born. 
• come into existence; be made public, visible, or available: this software first saw the light of day back in 1993. shed (or throw or cast) light on help to explain (something) by providing further information about it.PHRASAL VERBS light up (or light something up) (with reference to a person's face or eyes) suddenly become or cause to be animated with liveliness or joy: his eyes lit up and he smiled 
a smile of delight lit up her face.DERIVATIVES lightish 
ˈlīdiSH 
adjective. lightless adjectiveORIGIN Old English lēoht, līht (noun and adjective), līhtan (verb), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch licht and German Licht, from an Indo-European root shared by Greek leukos ‘white’ and Latin lux ‘light.’
