like
1 
BrE lʌɪk, AmE laɪk 

A.  preposition 
① (similar to, resembling) 像 xiàng to be like [somebody]/[something]; 像某人/某物 you know what she's like! 你知道她的为人了吧！ what's the film like? 那部电影怎么样？ it looks like rain 看样子要下雨了 it seemed like hours 似乎过了好几个小时 
② (in the manner of) 像…一样 xiàng… yīyàng she spoke like an aristocrat 她说起话来像个贵族 like me, she loves swimming 她像我一样喜欢游泳 it happened like this … 事情是这样的… don't talk like that! 不许那么说话！ 
③ (typical of) 符合…的特点 fúhé… de tèdiǎn that's just like him! 他就是这么一个人！ it's not like her to be late 她才不会迟到呢 like father, like son 有其父必有其子 
④ (close to, approximately) 大约 dàyuē it will cost something like £100 这大概要花100英镑 it'll cost more like £200 更确切地说，这要花差不多200英镑 he's called Rufus or Rudolph or something like that 他好像叫鲁弗斯或鲁道夫之类的名字 
⑤ (such as, for example) 例如 lìrú big countries like India 印度这类大国 the basic necessities of life like food and drink 诸如食物和饮料之类的基本生活必需品 
B.  adjectiveattributive 类似的 lèisì de people of like minds 志趣相投的人 eating, drinking, and like activities 吃喝之类的活动 to be of like mind on this issue 在这个问题上意见一致 
C.  conjunction 
① (in the same way as) 像…一样 xiàng… yīyàng do it like I do 照我的做 you don't know him like I do 你不像我那么了解他 like I said, I wasn't there 正如我说过的，我当时不在那儿 to tell it like it is 实话实说 
② colloquial (as if) 好像 hǎoxiàng he behaved like he was afraid 他表现得好像很害怕 it looks like it's going to rain 看起来像要下雨 
D.  adverb 
① (nearly) 差不多 chàbuduō the sequel is nothing like as good as the original 续集远远不如原作 if it's anything like as cold as today … 要是像今天这样冷… more like colloquial 倒更像是 champagne? sparkling wine, more like! colloquial 香槟？倒更像是汽酒吧！ 
② colloquial (so to speak) 可以说 kěyǐ shuō I felt embarrassed, like 可以这么说，我觉得尴尬 it was, like, Christmas, so we wanted to have some fun 这么说吧，那天是圣诞节，所以我们想找点乐子 
E.  noun 
① (similar thing) 类似的事物 lèisì de shìwù (similar person) 类似的人 lèisì de rén did you ever see the like (of it)? 你见过这种东西吗？ and the or such like; 诸如此类 judges, lawyers, and the like 法官、律师等人士 the like of which; 如此这般 to compare like with like 同类相比 the likes of …; …之类 she doesn't associate with the likes of us! colloquial 她才不愿意跟我们这种人扯在一起！ 
② (something liked) 爱好 àihào [somebody's] likes and dislikes; 某人的好恶 
like
1 
līk

▶preposition
1 having the same characteristics or qualities as; similar to: there were other suits like mine in the shop 
they were like brothers 
she looked nothing like Audrey Hepburn. 
• in the manner of; in the same way or to the same degree as: he was screaming like a banshee 
you must run like the wind. 
• in a way appropriate to: students were angry at being treated like children. 
• such as one might expect from; characteristic of: just like you to put a damper on people's enjoyment. 
• used in questions to ask about the characteristics or nature of someone or something: What is it like to be a tuna fisherman? 
What's she like?
2 used to draw attention to the nature of an action or event: I apologize for coming over unannounced like this 
why are you talking about me like that?
3 such as; for example: the cautionary vision of works like Animal Farm and 1984. 
▶conjunction informal
1 in the same way that; as: people who change countries like they change clothes.
2 as though; as if: I felt like I'd been kicked by a camel. 
▶noun used with reference to a person or thing of the same kind as another: the quotations could be arranged to put like with like 
I know him—him and his like. 
• (the like) a thing or things of the same kind (often used to express surprise or for emphasis): did you ever hear the like? 
a church interior the like of which he had never seen before. 
▶adjective (of a person or thing) having similar qualities or characteristics to another person or thing: I responded in like manner 
the grouping of children of like ability together. 
• British (of a portrait or other image) having a faithful resemblance to the original: “Who painted the dog's picture? It's very like.” 
▶adverb
1 informal used in speech as a meaningless filler or to signify the speaker's uncertainty about an expression just used: there was this funny smell—sort of dusty like.
2 informal used to convey a person's reported attitude or feelings in the form of direct speech (whether or not representing an actual quotation): so she comes into the room and she's like “Where is everybody?”
3 (like as/to) archaic in the manner of: like as a ship with dreadful storm long tossed. 
PHRASES
and the like and similar things; et cetera. like anything informal to a great degree: they would probably worry like anything. (as) like as not probably: she would be in bed by now, like as not. like enough (or most like) archaic probably: he'll have lost a deal of blood, I dare say, and like enough he's still losing it.like ——, like —— as —— is, so is ——: like father, like son. like so informal in this manner: the votive candles are arranged like so. the likes of informal used of someone or something regarded as a type: she didn't want to associate with the likes of me. more like informal nearer to (a specified number or description) than one previously given: he believes the figure should be more like $10 million. 
• (more like it) nearer to what is required or expected; more satisfactory. of (a) like mind (of a person) sharing the same opinions or tastes.ORIGIN Middle English: from líkr; related to alike . usage: The use of like as a conjunction meaning ‘as’ or ‘as if’ ( I don't have a wealthy set of in-laws like you do; they sit up like they're begging for food) is considered by many to be incorrect. Although like has been used as a conjunction in this way since the 15th century by many respected writers, it is still frowned upon and considered unacceptable in formal English. In more precise use, like is a preposition, used before nouns and pronouns: to fly like a bird; a town like ours. See also usage at go1 .
