limit 
BrE ˈlɪmɪt, AmE ˈlɪmɪt 

A.  noun 
① (maximum extent) 极限 jíxiàn to go to any limits (to do [something]); 竭尽全力（做某事） he has pushed my patience to the or its limits 他已让我忍无可忍了 this is/you're the limit! colloquial 太过分了/你太过分了！ 
② (legal restriction) 限制 xiànzhì height limit 限高 public spending limits 公共开支限额 safety limits （人体）安全限值 to be over/under the limit 超出/未超出限制 to do [something] within limits 在一定限度内做某事 
③ (boundary) (of territory, universe) 边界 biānjiè (of power, science) 界限 jièxiàn (of enclosed area) 范围 fànwéi to do [something] within (the) limits 在能力范围内做某事 to be beyond the limit(s) of experience 超出经验 to be off limits (to the public) 不（对公众）开放 my private life is off limits figurative 禁止谈论我的私生活 
B.  transitive verb 限制 xiànzhì to be limited to doing [something]; 仅限于做某事 we must limit our budget to £100 我们必须把预算控制在100英镑以内 
C.  reflexive verb to limit oneself to …; 把自己限制在…之内 bǎ zìjǐ xiànzhì zài… zhīnèi ‹amount, quantity›he limits himself to one cup of tea per day 他限定自己每天只喝一杯茶 
limit 
ˈlimit

▶noun
1 a point or level beyond which something does not or may not extend or pass: the limits of presidential power 
the 10-minute limit on speeches 
there was no limit to his imagination. 
• (often limits) the terminal point or boundary of an area or movement: the city limits 
the upper limit of the tidal reaches. 
• the furthest extent of one's physical or mental endurance: Mary Ann tried everyone's patience to the limit 
other horses were reaching their limit.
2 a restriction on the size or amount of something permissible or possible: an age limit 
a weight limit. 
• a speed limit: a 30 mph limit. 
• (in card games) an agreed maximum stake or bet. 
• (also legal limit) the maximum concentration of alcohol in the blood that the law allows in the driver of a motor vehicle: the risk of drinkers inadvertently going over the limit.
3 Mathematics a point or value that a sequence, function, or sum of a series can be made to approach progressively, until it is as close to the point or value as desired. 
▶verb (limits, limiting, limited) [with object] set or serve as a limit to: try to limit the amount you drink 
class sizes are limited to a maximum of
10 
(as adjective limiting) : a limiting factor. 
PHRASES
be the limit informal be intolerably troublesome or irritating. off limits out of bounds: they declared the site off limits. 
• not to be mentioned or discussed: it was apparent that the whole topic was off limits. within limits moderately; up to a point. without limit with no restriction.DERIVATIVES limitative 
ˈliməˌtādiv 
adjectiveORIGIN late Middle English: from Latin limes, limit- ‘boundary, frontier.’ The verb is from Latin limitare, from limes .
