litter 
BrE ˈlɪtə, AmE ˈlɪdər 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(rubbish) 垃圾 lājī to drop litter 乱扔垃圾 no litter 禁止乱扔垃圾 
② Uncountable(random collection) 乱放的杂物 luàn fàng de záwù a litter of … 一堆乱七八糟的… ‹books, toys, beer cans›
③ Countable(group of young animals) 一胎幼崽 yī tāi yòuzǎi to have a litter of kittens 生一窝小猫 
④ Uncountable(bedding for farm stock) 褥草 rùcǎo (in toilet tray) 猫砂 māoshā 
B.  transitive verb 乱扔 luàn rēng to litter a house with [something] 在房子里乱扔 ‹toys, clothes, rubbish›to litter the floor/ground with [something] 在地板上/地上到处扔某物 to be littered with leaves/corpses «field, ground» 到处都是落叶/尸体 to be littered with allusions/references figurative 满是典故/参考引文 
C.  intransitive verb «animal» 产崽 chǎnzǎi 
litter 
ˈlidər

▶noun
1 trash, such as paper, cans, and bottles, that is left lying in an open or public place: litter
4 fines for dropping litter. 
• [in singular] an untidy collection of things lying about: a litter of sleeping bags on the floor.
2 the group of young animals born to an animal at one time: a litter of five kittens.
3 material forming a surface-covering layer, in particular: 
• (also cat litter) absorbent material, typically in granular form, used to line a shallow receptacle in which a cat can urinate and defecate when indoors. 
• straw or other plant matter used as bedding for animals. 
• (also leaf litter) decomposing but recognizable leaves and other debris forming a layer on top of the soil, especially in forests.
4 historical a vehicle containing a bed or seat enclosed by curtains and carried on men's shoulders or by animals. 
• a stretcher, for transporting the sick and wounded. 
▶verb [with object]
1 make (a place) untidy with rubbish or a large number of objects left lying about: clothes and newspapers littered the floor. 
• (usually be littered) leave (rubbish or a number of objects) lying untidily in a place: there was broken glass littered about. 
• (usually be littered with) fill (a text, history, etc.) with examples of something unpleasant: news pages have been littered with doom and gloom about company collapses.
2 archaic provide (a horse or other animal) with litter as bedding. DERIVATIVES litterer nounORIGIN Middle English ( sense
4 of the noun): from Old French litiere, from medieval Latin lectaria, from Latin lectus ‘bed.’ Sense
1 of the noun dates from the mid 18th century.
