little 
BrE ˈlɪt(ə)l, AmE ˈlɪdl 
A. adjective 
① (small) 小的 xiǎo de ‹person, animal, thing›a little house/dog 小屋/小狗 a little old lady 小老太太 the little toe 小脚趾 I need a little something to eat colloquial 我要吃点东西 
② (young) 年幼的 niányòu de my little ones 我年幼的孩子们 the polar bear and her little ones 那头北极熊和它的幼崽 when I was little 我小时候 
③ (feeble, weak) 不明显的 bù míngxiǎn de ‹gesture, nod›; 微弱的 wēiruò de ‹voice›a shy little smile 一丝羞怯的笑 
④ (expressing scorn, contempt) 讨厌的 tǎoyàn de ‹people, things›she's a snobbish little woman 她是个势利小人 a poky little flat 简陋狭窄的公寓 
⑤ (short) 很短的 hěn duǎn de ‹time, distance›; 小的 xiǎo de ‹bit, piece›a little nap/break 小睡/短暂的休息 to walk a little way 走一小段路 after a little while 过了一小会儿 
B.  determiner(comparative form less, superlative form least) 很少的 hěn shǎo de ‹point, sense›; 微不足道的 wēi bù zú dào de ‹damage›; 很小的 hěn xiǎo de ‹hope, chance, influence›he speaks little German 他几乎不会说德语 there's so little time 时间很紧 to have little money 钱很少 with no little difficulty 很困难地 I see little of Paul these days 我最近很少见到保罗 
C.  pronoun 一点 yīdiǎn to taste a little of [something] 尝一小口某物 a little of the money 这笔钱的很少一部分 to remember very little about [something] 几乎不记得某事物 he gave her what little he had 他把仅有的一点给了她 little of what he says is true 他没说真话 there's little I can do/to worry about 我做不了什么/没什么好担心的 little of note 无足轻重的事 she did little to help 她没怎么帮忙 I got little out of the lecture 我从这场讲座中获益不多 to do as little as possible 尽可能少做事 age has little to do with it 这和年纪没什么关系 little or nothing 几乎没有什么 → too 
① 
D.  adverb 
① (rarely) 很少 hěn shǎo ‹go, say, read, sleep›she visits them as little as possible 她尽量不拜访他们 
② (hardly, scarcely) 几乎不 jīhū bù to be little changed 几乎没有改变 to be little better 好不了多少 it's little short of madness to do [something] 做某事简直是疯了 a little-known novel 鲜为人知的长篇小说 
③ (not at all) 完全不 wánquán bù I little thought or supposed that … 我根本不认为… little do you know! 你完全想不到！ 
E.  in adverb phrases 
① a little (bit) (slightly) 有点 yǒudiǎn to be a little (bit) anxious at [something] 对某事有点焦虑 a little less/more … 更少/更多一点… to stay a little longer 呆得再稍微久些 could you move over a little? 劳驾能往那边挪一点儿吗？ not a little surprised/proudly 极其惊讶的/骄傲地 
② little by little (gradually, slowly) 渐渐地 jiànjiàn de 
③ as little as (only as much as) 仅仅 jǐnjǐn it cost as little as £60 它只要60英镑 I like Luna as little as you do 我和你一样不喜欢卢娜 
little 
▶adjective
1 a little writing desk: small, small-scale, compact; mini, miniature, tiny, minute, minuscule; toy, baby, pocket, undersized, dwarf, midget, wee; informal teeny-weeny, teensy-weensy, itsy-bitsy, itty-bitty, little-bitty, half-pint, vest-pocket, li'l, micro. ANTONYMS big, large.
2 a little man: short, small, slight, petite, diminutive, tiny; elfin, dwarfish, midget, pygmy, Lilliputian; informal teeny-weeny, pint-sized, peewee. ANTONYMS big, large.
3 my little sister: young, younger, junior, small, baby, infant. ANTONYMS big, elder.
4 I was a bodyguard for a little while: brief, short, short-lived; fleeting, momentary, transitory, transient; fast, quick, hasty, cursory. ANTONYMS long.
5 a few little problems: minor, unimportant, insignificant, trivial, trifling, petty, paltry, inconsequential, nugatory; informal dinky, piddling. ANTONYMS important, significant.
6 they have little political influence: hardly any, not much, slight, scant, limited, restricted, modest, little or/to no, minimal, negligible. ANTONYMS considerable.
7 you little sneak: contemptible, mean, spiteful, petty, small-minded.
▶adverb
1 he is little known as a singer 
they little thought: hardly, barely, scarcely, not much, not at all, slightly, only slightly. ANTONYMS well.
2 his art has been little seen in Canada: rarely, seldom, infrequently, hardly, hardly ever, scarcely, scarcely ever, not much. ANTONYMS often.
PHRASES
a little
1 add a little vinegar: some, a small amount of, a bit of, a touch of, a soupçon of, a dash of, a taste of, a spot of; a shade of, a suggestion of, a trace of, a hint of, a suspicion of; a dribble of, a splash of, a pinch of, a sprinkling of, a speck of; informal a smidgen of, a tad of.
2 after a little, Oliver came in: a short time, a little while, a bit, an interval, a short period; a minute, a moment, a second, an instant; informal a sec, a mo, a jiffy.
3 this reminds me a little of the Adriatic: slightly, faintly, remotely, vaguely; somewhat, a little bit, to some degree. little by little little by little, the house fell into disrepair: gradually, slowly, by degrees, by stages, step by step, bit by bit, progressively; subtly, imperceptibly. CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD See small .These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
