live
1 
BrE lɪv, AmE lɪv 

A.  transitive verb 过 guò to live one's life; 生活 shēnghuó to live a normal/peaceful life 过正常/平静的生活 to live a life of luxury/crime 过奢华/罪恶的生活 to live the life of a recluse/a saint 过隐士/圣徒般的生活 to live one's faith/politics 按照信仰/政治立场生活 to live the part or role (of [somebody]) 生活中亦如演出（某角色）一般 to live [something] down 让人忘记某事物 I'll never live it down! humorous 我永远都无法让人忘记这件事！ 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (dwell) «person, animal» 居住 jūzhù where do you live? 你住哪里？ a place to live 居住地 to live in …; «person» 住在 ‹countryside, town, street› «animal» 生活在 shēnghuó zài ‹fresh water, forest›to live at home/number 15/Buckingham Palace 住在家里/15号/白金汉宫 he lives at the betting shop/in those jeans colloquial humorous 他整天泡在投注站里/穿着那条牛仔裤 he lives by the canal/over the shop 他住运河边/店铺楼上 to live with [somebody]; 与某人住一起 he's not very easy to live with 与他同住不是件容易的事 to live together «family, friends» 同住 «couple» 同居 tóngjū to live apart 分居 to live alone or on one's own 独居 the tea towels live in that cupboard over there colloquial 茶巾通常放在那边那个橱柜里 
② (lead one's life) 生活 shēnghuó to live well/dangerously 过殷实/危险的生活 to live in luxury/poverty 生活奢侈/贫困 we live in the computer age 我们生活在计算机时代 to live in hope/fear (of [somebody]/[something]/doing [something]) 生活在（对某人/某事物/做某事的）希望/恐惧之中 to live in peace with [somebody] 与某人和平相处 to live for [something]/[somebody]; 为…而活着 ‹sport, work, pastime, family›to live through [something]; 经历 ‹war, depression›to live without [something]/[somebody]; 在没有…的情况下生活 ‹person, luxury, substance›they lived happily ever after 后来他们便一直过着幸福的生活 to live like a king/lord/pig; 像国王/老爷/猪一样生活 to live by; 遵照…生活 ‹standards, beliefs, rules›to live from day to day 一天天过日子 to live and let live 互相宽容 you live and learn 活到老，学到老 
③ (be alive) 活着 huózhe he lived to be ninety-three 他活到了93岁 as long as I live, I'll … 只要我还活着，我就会… he's only got six months to live 他只能活6个月了 I don't think all the quintuplets will live 我认为五胞胎不会都活下来 I'll live! humorous 我死不了！ I've got nothing left to live for 我活着没什么盼头了 to make the characters live 把人物塑造得栩栩如生 
④ (survive) 存活 cúnhuó to live to do [something]; 活到做某事 you may live to regret this 你总有一天要为这件事后悔的 long live [somebody]/[something]! 某人/某事物万岁！ the memory will live in my heart forever 这份记忆将永远留在我心中 to live through winter/the night 活过冬季/今晚 to live to fight another day 存活下来以期再战 to live to tell the tale 活下来讲述危险的经历 
⑤ (maintain existence) 生存 shēngcún I barely earn enough to live 我赚的钱勉强够养活自己 to live by doing [something]; 靠做某事为生 to live on; 以吃…为生 ‹food› 靠…过活 kào… guòhuó ‹wage, charity›to live on fresh air 不吃不喝 to live off; 靠…过活 kào… guòhuó ‹interest, profits›to live out of; 靠吃…里的食物过活 ‹freezer, cans›
⑥ (put up with) to live with [something]; 忍受某事物 rěnshòu mǒu shìwù to live with the consequences 接受后果 jiēshòu hòuguǒ how can you live with the knowledge that …? 既然知道…，你怎么还能坐视不理？ to live with the fact that … 接受…的事实 jiēshòu… de shìshí to learn to live with [something]; 努力忍受某事物 nǔlì rěnshòu mǒu shìwù to live with oneself; 感到心安 gǎndào xīn ān I couldn't live with myself or my conscience 我良心上过不去 wǒ liángxīn shang guòbuqù 
⑦ colloquial (experience life) 享受生活 xiǎngshòu shēnghuó this is what I call living! 这才是我所谓的享受生活呢！ she's really lived! 她真正享受了生活！ you haven't lived until you've … 你只有…才算享受过人生的乐趣 live a little! 享受一下生活吧！ to live it up 狂欢 PHRASAL VERBS live in intransitive verb 住在工作的地方 zhù zài gōngzuò de dìfang most of the teachers/students live in 大多数老师/学生住校 most of the workers live in 多数工人住在厂区 live on intransitive verb «person, animal» 继续存活 jìxù cúnhuó ; figurative «fame, memory, work» 继续存在 jìxù cúnzài live out 
A.  intransitive verb 不住在工作的地方 bù zhùzài gōngzuò de dìfang 
B.  transitive verb[live out something] 
① (survive) 活过 huóguò ‹season, day, week›
② (spend) 度过 dùguò to live out the rest of one's days somewhere 在某处度过余生 
③ (enact) 实现 shíxiàn ‹fantasies›live up to transitive verb[live up to something] 不辜负 bù gūfù ‹expectations›; 符合 fúhé ‹standards, advertising, hype›to live up to one's reputation (as …) （作为…）名符其实 
live
1 
liv

▶verb
1 [no object] remain alive: the doctors said she had only six months to live 
both cats lived to a ripe age. 
• be alive at a specified time: he lived four centuries ago. 
• spend one's life in a particular way or under particular circumstances: people are living in fear in the wake of the shootings 
[with object] : he was living a life of luxury in Australia. 
• supply oneself with the means of subsistence: they live by hunting and fishing. 
• survive in someone's mind; be remembered: only the name lived on. 
• have an exciting or fulfilling life: he couldn't wait to get out of school and really start living.
2 [no object] make one's home in a particular place or with a particular person: I've lived in New England all my life 
they lived with his grandparents. 
PHRASES
as I live and breathe used, especially in spoken English, to express one's surprise at coming across someone or something: good Lord, Jack Stone, as I live and breathe! be living on borrowed time see borrow. live and breathe something be extremely interested in or enthusiastic about a particular subject or activity and so devote a great deal of one's time to it: they live and breathe Italy and all things Italian. live and let live proverb you should tolerate the opinions and behavior of others so that they will similarly tolerate your own. live by one's wits see wit1. live dangerously do something risky, especially on a habitual basis. live for the moment see moment. live in hope be or remain optimistic about something. live in the past have old-fashioned or outdated ideas and attitudes. 
• dwell on or reminisce at length about past events. live in sin see sin1. live it up informal spend one's time in an extremely enjoyable way, typically by spending a great deal of money or engaging in an exciting social life. live off (or on) the fat of the land see fat. live off the land see land. live out of a suitcase live or stay somewhere on a temporary basis and with only a limited selection of one's belongings, typically because one's occupation requires a great deal of traveling. live one's own life follow one's own plans and principles independent of others. live rough live and sleep outdoors as a consequence of having no proper home. live to fight another day survive a particular experience or ordeal. live to regret something come to wish that one had not done something: those who put work before their family life often live to regret it. live to tell the tale survive a dangerous experience and be able to tell others about it. live with oneself be able to retain one's self-respect as a consequence of one's actions: taking money from children—how can you live with yourself? long live ——! said to express loyalty or support for a specified person or thing: long live the Queen! where one lives North American informal at, to, or in the right, vital, or most vulnerable spot: it gets me where I live. you haven't lived used, especially in spoken English, as a way of enthusiastically recommending something to someone who has not experienced it: you haven't lived until you've tasted their lobster ravioli. you (or we) live and learn used, especially in spoken English, to acknowledge that a fact is new to one.PHRASAL VERBS live something down succeed in making others forget something embarrassing that has happened. live for regard as the purpose or most important aspect of one's life: Tony lived for his painting. live in (of an employee or student) reside at the place where one works or studies. live off (or on) depend on (someone or something) as a source of income or support: if you think you're going to live off me for the rest of your life, you're mistaken. 
• have (a particular amount of money) with which to buy food and other necessities. 
• subsist on (a particular type of food). 
• (of a person) eat, or seem to eat, only (a particular type of food): she used to live on bacon and tomato sandwiches.live out (of an employee or student) reside away from the place where one works or studies. live something out
1 do in reality that which one has thought or dreamed about: your wedding day is the one time that you can live out your most romantic fantasies.
2 spend the rest of one's life in a particular place or particular circumstances: he lived out his days as a happy family man. live through survive (an unpleasant experience or period): both men lived through the Depression. live together (especially of a couple not married to each other) share a home and have a sexual relationship. live up to fulfill (expectations). 
• fulfill (an undertaking): the president lived up to his promise to set America swiftly on a new path. live with
1 share a home and have a sexual relationship with (someone to whom one is not married).
2 accept or tolerate (something unpleasant): our marriage was a failure—you have to learn to live with that fact.ORIGIN Old English libban, lifian, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch leven and German leben, also to life and leave1 .
