living 
BrE ˈlɪvɪŋ, AmE ˈlɪvɪŋ 
A. adjective 
① (alive) 活的 huó de ‹person, animal, organism›is your grandmother still living? 令祖母还健在吗？ to be living proof/a living example of [something] 是某事物的鲜活证明/生动例证 a living hell 人间地狱 there wasn't a living soul about 那儿一个人影也没有 he's the living image of his father 他酷似父亲 he's a living legend 他是当今的传奇人物 the living dead 活死人 ［指僵尸、吸血鬼等］
② (used or practised today) 现存的 xiàncún de ‹culture, tradition›a living language 现用语言 the living word of God 福音 in or within living memory 在当今人们的记忆中 
B.  nounUncountable
① (livelihood) 生计 shēngjì to earn or make a living by doing [something]; 靠做某事为生 an honest/a meagre living 规矩/贫困的生活 to scratch a living 勉强维持生活 what do you do for a living? 你以何为生？ it's not much of a living 这收入不高 some of us have to work for a living! humorous 我们不能都干坐着啊！ 
② (lifestyle) 生活方式 shēnghuó fāngshì easy/loose/fast/high living 自在/淫荡/放浪/豪奢的生活方式 
③ Religion (position) 有薪俸的神职 yǒu xīnfèng de shénzhí 
④ the living plural (people who are alive) 生者 shēngzhě to be still in the land of the living humorous (alive) 还活着 hái huózhe (awake) 还醒着 hái xǐngzhe 
living 
▶noun
1 she cleaned floors for a living: livelihood, (source of) income, means of support, subsistence, keep, maintenance, sustenance, nourishment, daily bread; job, work, employment, occupation, vocation; informal bread and butter.
2 healthy living: way of life, lifestyle, way of living, life; conduct, behavior, activities, habits.
▶adjective
1 living organisms: alive, live, having life, animate, sentient; breathing, existing, existent; biological, biotic, organic; informal alive and kicking. ANTONYMS dead, extinct.
2 a living language: current, contemporary, present; in use, active, surviving, extant, persisting, remaining, existing, in existence. ANTONYMS dead, extinct.
3 a living hell: complete, total, utter, absolute, real, veritable, perfect, out-and-out, downright.WORD TOOLKIT See organic .Word Toolkits illustrate the difference between close synonyms by means of words typically used with them.
