lock
1 
BrE lɒk, AmE lɑk 

A.  noun 
① (mechanism) 锁 suǒ to fasten a lock 把锁锁上 to pick a lock 撬锁 under lock and key 妥善保管着 
② (on canal, river) 闸 zhá the lock filled with water 水闸内放满了水 
③ (in wrestling, fighting) 夹 jiā arm/leg lock 夹臂/抱腿 
④ (rugby) lock (forward) 第二排前锋 dì-èr pái qiánfēng 
⑤ Auto 前轮转向角度 qiánlún zhuǎnxiàng jiǎodù on half/full lock 转向打到一半/打到底的 3.5 turns from lock to lock 3.5轮的满转向角度 to have a good/bad lock 转向良好/不好 
⑥ Computing (on file) 加密锁 jiāmìsuǒ 
⑦ archaic (on firearm) 保险栓 bǎoxiǎnshuān lock, stock, and barrel figurative 完全地 
B.  transitive verb 
① (close securely) 锁上 suǒshang ‹door, window, drawer›to lock [something] in a drawer 把某物锁在抽屉里 locked and barred or bolted 锁得严严实实的 
② Computing 对…加锁 duì… jiā suǒ ‹file›
③ (become fixed) 紧紧抓住 jǐnjǐn zhuāzhù to lock horns literal «animals» 扭打 figurative «people» 争执 zhēngzhí to be locked in combat «enemies, armies, countries» 陷入战斗 to be locked in an embrace «lovers, friends» 紧紧拥抱 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (close securely) «door, drawer» 被锁上 bèi suǒshang 
② (seize up) «steering wheel» 卡住 qiǎzhù ; «wheels» 刹住 shāzhù ; «brakes» 抱死 bàosǐ PHRASAL VERBS lock away transitive verb[lock somebody/something away, lock away somebody/something] 把…锁起来 bǎ… suǒ qilai ‹valuables, documents, money›; 关押 guānyā ‹person›lock in transitive verb[lock somebody/something in] 把…锁在里面 bǎ… suǒ zài lǐmian to lock oneself in 把自己锁在里面 lock on to transitive verb[lock on to something] «radar, bomb» 锁定 suǒdìng ‹target, building›lock out transitive verb[lock somebody/something out] 把…关在门外 bǎ… guān zài mén wài to lock oneself out; 把自己锁在门外 lock together intransitive verb «components, pieces» 结合 jiéhé lock up 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (when leaving) 锁好门窗 suǒhǎo ménchuāng 
② «wheels» 刹住 shāzhù ; «brakes» 抱死 bàosǐ 
B.  transitive verb[lock up somebody/something, lock somebody/something up] 把…锁起来 bǎ… suǒ qilai ‹valuables, documents, money›; 关押 guānyā ‹person›he should be locked up! colloquial 他应该被关起来！ 
lock
1 
läk

▶noun
1 a mechanism for keeping a door, lid, etc., fastened, typically operated only by a key of a particular form: the key turned firmly in the lock. 
• a device used to prevent the operation or movement of a vehicle or other machine: a bicycle lock. 
• a facility on a computer or mobile phone that requires a user to verify their identity with a passcode or other form of authentication in order to access the full functionality of the device: there's a security lock on the phone and he doesn't know the code. 
• (in wrestling and martial arts) a hold that prevents an opponent from moving a limb. 
• [in singular] archaic a number of interlocked or jammed items: a street closed by a lock of carriages.
2 a short confined section of a canal or other waterway in which the water level can be changed by the use of gates and sluices, used for raising and lowering vessels between two gates. 
• an airlock.
3 (a lock) North American informal a person or thing that is certain to succeed; a certainty.
4 historical a mechanism for exploding the charge of a gun. 
▶verb
1 [with object] fasten or secure (something) with a lock: she closed and locked her desk. 
• enclose or shut in by locking or fastening a door, lid, etc.: the prisoners are locked in overnight 
Phil locked away the takings every night. 
• [no object] (of a door, window, box, etc.) become or be able to be secured through activation of a lock: the door will automatically lock behind you.
2 restrict access to the full functionality or data of (a computer, mobile phone, file, etc.), especially by requiring a user to verify their identity with a passcode or other form of authentication: my computer is locked and I've forgotten my login info 
I don't want people to read my emails—that's why I lock my phone. 
• (be locked) (of a mobile phone) operate only on the network of a particular carrier: the phone is locked to T-mobile.
3 make or become rigidly fixed or immovable: [with object] : he locked his hands behind her neck 
the vessel was locked in ice 
[no object] : their gaze locked for several long moments.
4 [no object] go through a lock on a canal: we locked through at Moore Haven. 
PHRASES
have a lock on North American informal have an unbreakable hold on or total control over. lock horns engage in conflict. lock, stock, and barrel including everything; completely: the place is owned lock, stock, and barrel by an oil company. [referring to the complete mechanism of a firearm.] under lock and key securely locked up.PHRASAL VERBS lock someone down North American confine a prisoner to their cell, especially so as to gain control. lock someone/something in (or into) involve or entangle someone or something in (an embrace or struggle): they were locked in a legal battle. 
• oblige a person or company to abide by the terms of a contract for a specific period.lock onto locate (a target) by radar or similar means and then track. lock someone out
1 keep someone out of a room or building by locking the door.
2 (of an employer) subject employees to a lockout. lock someone out of exclude someone from: those now locked out of the job market. lock someone up (or away) imprison someone.lock something up (also lock up) shut and secure something, especially a building, by fastening its doors with locks: the diplomatic personnel locked up their building and walked off 
you could lock up for me when you leave. 
• (also lock something away) invest money in something so that it is not easily accessible: vast sums of money locked up in pension funds.DERIVATIVES lockable 
ˈläkəb(ə)l 
adjective. lockless adjectiveORIGIN Old English loc, of Germanic origin; related to German Loch ‘hole.’
