lodge 
BrE lɒdʒ, AmE lɑdʒ 

A.  noun 
① (for gatekeeper, caretaker) 门房 ménfáng entrance lodge 门房 ménfáng 
② (for country sports) [供参加户外运动者暂住的] 乡间小屋 xiāngjiān xiǎowū 
③ (in Freemasonry) (building) 地方分会集会处 dìfāng fēnhuì jíhuìchù (group) 地方分会 dìfāng fēnhuì 
④ (of beaver) 穴 xué 
B.  transitive verb 
① (accommodate) 为…提供住宿 wèi… tígōng zhùsù ‹guests, friends›
② (file) 正式提出 zhèngshì tíchū ‹appeal, protest›to lodge a complaint 正式提出投诉 
③ (deposit) 存放 cúnfàng to lodge the money with the court 把钱交法庭保管 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (reside) 寄宿 jìsù to lodge with [somebody]; 在某人家寄宿 
② (stick) 嵌入 qiànrù the bullet has lodged in his shoulder 子弹射入了他的肩膀 a bone lodged in his throat 一根骨头卡在他的喉咙里 it lodged in her memory figurative 这事留存在她的记忆中 
lodge 
läj

▶noun
1 a small house at the gates of a park or in the grounds of a large house, typically occupied by a gatekeeper, gardener, or other employee. 
• a small country house occupied in season for sports such as hunting, shooting, fishing, and skiing: a hunting lodge. 
• a large house or hotel: Cumberland Lodge. 
• a porter's quarters at the main entrance of a college or other large building. 
• the residence of a head of a college, especially at Cambridge. 
• an American Indian hut. 
• a beaver's den.
2 a branch or meeting place of an organization such as the Freemasons. 
▶verb
1 [with object] present (a complaint, appeal, claim, etc.) formally to the proper authorities: he has 28 days in which to lodge an appeal. 
• (lodge something in/with) leave money or a valuable item in (a place) or with (someone) for safekeeping.
2 make or become firmly fixed or embedded in a particular place: [with object] : they had to remove a bullet lodged near his spine 
[no object] figurative : the image had lodged in her mind.
3 [no object] stay or sleep in another person's house, paying money for one's accommodations: the man who lodged in the room next door. 
• [with object] provide (someone) with a place to sleep or stay in return for payment.
4 [with object] (of wind or rain) flatten (a standing crop): (as adjective lodged) : rain that soaks standing or lodged crops 
[no object] : the variety is high yielding, but it has mostly lodged. ORIGIN Middle English loge, via Old French loge ‘arbor, hut’ from medieval Latin laubia, lobia (see lobby), of Germanic origin; related to German Laube ‘arbor.’
