long
1 
BrE lɒŋ, AmE lɔŋ, lɑŋ 

A.  adjective 
① (lengthy, protracted) 长的 cháng de twenty metres/minutes long 20米/20分钟长 long thin sausages 细长的香肠 to get or grow long 变长/长长 to be long in the leg 腿长 to be long in the tooth colloquial 年迈 to be long on [something] colloquial 颇具某特性 long on brawn, short on brains 肌肉发达，头脑简单 to have a long face 愁眉苦脸 to make or pull a long face 表情郁闷 not by a long chalk or shot colloquial 绝不 
② a long way (in distance) 长距离的 cháng jùlí de to be a long way away or off ([something]); （离某处）很远 (lí mǒu chù)hěn yuǎn they're a long way away from satisfying all the requirements 他们还远不能满足所有要求 a long way down the road/up to the top/out to sea 沿路过去/往山顶/到海洋远处的很长距离 you have to go a long way down the list before … 你必须顺着名单往下找很久，才能… to be a long way out 相去甚远 xiāngqù shèn yuǎn to have come a long way since those days 从那时到现在取得了长足的进步 to go a long way (be successful) «person» 获得成功 huòdé chénggōng (last long time) «quantity, amount» 够维持很长时间 gòu wéichí hěn cháng shíjiān to go a long way towards [something]/doing [something]; 对某事物/做某事大有帮助 duì mǒu shìwù/zuò mǒu shì dà yǒu bāngzhù to have a long way to go (to … or before …); （离…）有很大差距 (lí… )yǒu hěn dà chājù 
③ (in time) 长时间的 cháng shíjiān de a long holiday 长假 it's been a very long day 真是漫长的一天 to take a long hard look at [something] 仔细严格地检视某物 a long hard stare 长时间的审视 she took a long drink from the flask 她拿着保温杯喝了一大口水 a long kiss 深深的一吻 to heave a long heavy sigh 长叹一声 to take the long view 从长远考虑 a long time; 长时间 I'm sorry I've been such a long time returning your call 我很抱歉这么久才回你电话 for a long time; 很久以来 a (very) long time ago （很久）很久以前 to take a long time (for [somebody]) to do [something] 做某事花（某人）很长时间 to be a long way away or off ([something]); （离某时间）尚早 to wait a long time before … 等待很久才… long time no see humorous 久违了 
B.  adverb 
① (extended period of time) 长久地 chángjiǔ de ‹last, go on, continue›I shan't be long 我很快就好 will you be long?, how long will you be? 你要很久吗？/你需要多久？ don't be long getting ready, please 请马上准备好 it's been so long since we last met 我们已经很久没见面了 it's not that long until Christmas 很快就是圣诞节了 it wasn't long before people began to arrive 人们很快就开始到来了 I don't have or haven't got long 我的时间不多了 you won't have long to wait 你们不用等很久 she hasn't got long before her exams start 她很快就要开始考试了 long live the King! 国王万岁！ he stayed just long enough to meet us 他只待到和我们见了个面 to take longer than expected 比预期的要长 not to take long to do [something]; 做某事没用很长时间 at the longest it only lasted one second 它最长只持续1秒钟 before long (in future) 马上 (in past) 不久前 (not) for long （不）长久地 will you be gone for long? 你要去很久吗？ he's happy now but not for long 他现在很高兴，可惜好景不长 (not to do [something] until) long after; 很久以后（才做某事） it's long after your bedtime 你的就寝时间早就过了 long ago 很久以前 it's not so long ago that you … 不久以前，你还… long before … 在…之前很久 long before the end/we were married 在结束前/我们结婚前很久 it wasn't long before he realized 他很快便意识到了 he left not long before you arrived 你到时他刚离开不久 long since 很久以前 they've long since gone home 他们早就回家了 not long since 没过多久 a long-since discredited theory 早就受到质疑的理论 no longer 不再 I can't stand it any longer 我再也无法忍受了 five minutes, no longer 只给5分钟 I'll be no longer than five minutes 我5分钟之内就好 so long colloquial 再见 
② (over a period of time) 很早以前 hěn zǎo yǐqián I had long wished to meet him 我早就想见他 he is long gone 他早走了 
③ (expressing duration) 整个地 zhěnggè de all day/night long 一整天/一整夜 her whole life long 她的一辈子 
C.  as long as conjunction phrase 
① (in time) borrow it for as long as you like 你爱借多久就多久 
② (provided that) as or so long as 只要 zhǐyào as long as possible/necessary 只要有可能/有必要 zhǐyào yǒu kěnéng/yǒu bìyào as long as I live 只要我一息尚存 zhǐyào wǒ yī xī shàng cún as long as you're safe 只要你安全 zhǐyào nǐ ānquán 
D.  noun 
① (essential points) that's the long and the short of it 情况就是这样 qíngkuàng jiùshì zhèyàng the long and the short of it is that … 总而言之… zǒng ér yán zhī… 
② (syllable, signal) 长音节 chángyīnjié ; (in Morse Code) 长画 chánghuà 
long
1 
lôNG läNG

▶adjective (longer 
ˈlôNGɡər, ˈläNG-
, longest 
lôNGɡist, ˈläNG-
)
1 measuring a great distance from end to end: a long corridor 
long black hair 
the line for tickets was long. 
• (after a measurement and in questions) measuring a specified distance from end to end: a boat 150 feet long 
how long is the leash? 
• (of a journey) covering a great distance: I went for a long walk. 
• (of a garment or sleeves on a garment) covering the whole of a person's legs or arms: a sweater with long sleeves. 
• of elongated shape: shaped like a torpedo, long and thin. 
• (of a ball in sports) traveling a great distance, or further than expected or intended: he threw a long ball to the catcher. 
• informal (of a person) tall.
2 lasting or taking a great amount of time: a long and distinguished career 
she took a long time to dress. 
• (after a noun of duration and in questions) lasting or taking a specified amount of time: the debates will be 90 minutes long. 
• seeming to last more time than is the case; lengthy or tedious: serving long hours on the committee. 
• (of a person's memory) retaining things for a great amount of time.
3 relatively great in extent: write a long report 
a long list of candidates. 
• (after a noun of extent and in questions) having a specified extent: the statement was three pages long.
4 Phonetics (of a vowel) categorized as long with regard to quality and length (e.g., in standard American English, the vowel 
uː
in food is long, as distinct from the short vowel 
ʊ
in good). 
• Prosody (of a vowel or syllable) having the greater of the two recognized durations.
5 (of odds or a chance) reflecting or representing a low level of probability: winning against long odds 
you're taking a long chance.
6 Finance (of shares, bonds, or other assets) bought in advance, with the expectation of a rise in price. 
• (of a broker or their position in the market) buying or based on long stocks. 
• (of a security) maturing at a distant date.
7 (long on) informal well-supplied with: an industry that seems long on ideas but short on cash. 
▶noun
1 a long interval or period: see you before long 
it will not be for long.
2 a long sound such as a long signal in Morse code or a long vowel or syllable: two longs and a short.
3 (longs) Finance long-dated securities, especially gilt-edged securities. 
• assets held in a long position. 
▶adverb (longer; longest)
1 for a long time: we hadn't known them long 
an experience they will long remember 
his long-awaited Grand Prix debut. 
• in questions about a period of time: how long have you been working? 
• at a time distant from a specified event or point of time: it was abandoned long ago 
the work was compiled long after his death. 
• after an implied point of time: he could not wait any longer. 
• (after a noun of duration) throughout a specified period of time: it rained all day long.
2 (with reference to the ball in sports) at, to, or over a great distance, or further than expected or intended: the quarterback dropped back and threw the ball long. 
• beyond the point aimed at; too far: he threw the ball long. 
PHRASES
as (or so) long as
1 during the whole time that: they have been there as long as anyone can remember.
2 provided that: as long as you fed him, he would be cooperative. be long take a long time to happen or arrive: it won't be long before you're hooked 
sit down, tea won't be long. in the long run over or after a long period of time; eventually: it saves money in the long run. long ago in the distant past: long ago an unmarried girl was considered her father's property 
her son died long ago 
[as modifier] : time has marched on since my long-ago youth. the long and the short of it all that can or need be said: the long and short of it is that he got himself mugged. long in the tooth rather old. [originally said of horses, from the receding of the gums with age.] long time no see informal it's a long time since we last met (used as a greeting). [in humorous imitation of broken English spoken by an American Indian.] not long ago recently: not long ago he came across a rattlesnake outside his house. take the long view think beyond the current situation; plan for the future.ORIGIN Old English lang, long (adjective), lange, longe (adverb), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch and German lang .
