loose 
BrE luːs, AmE lus 

A.  adjective 
① (not firmly tied or secured) 松动的 sōngdòng de ‹tooth, nail, joint, brick›; 松散的 sōngsǎn de ‹knot, page, thread›my shoelace is loose 我鞋带松了 the post is very loose in the ground 柱子松松地埋在地里 I've got a loose button on my shirt 我衬衣上有一颗纽扣松了 a loose connection Electricity 接触不良 to come or get or work loose; «nail, brick, handle» 松动 «knot, bonds» 松散 sōngsǎn to work or make loose; 使…松动 ‹nail, brick, handle› 使…松散 shǐ… sōngsǎn ‹knot, bonds›to hang loose «reins, rope, thread» 垂下 «hair» 披散 pīsan hang loose, man! AmE colloquial 放松，老兄！ to be at a loose end 无所事事 to tie up any or the loose ends 做收尾工作 
② (not confined, free) 不受束缚的 bù shòu shùfù de ‹animal, person›there's a tiger loose at the zoo 动物园里有一只放养的老虎 to get loose 挣脱束缚 to let or set or turn loose; 释放 ‹animal, prisoner›to let the dogs loose on [somebody] 放狗袭击某人 to let [somebody] loose on [something]; 让某人随意使用某物 to roam/run loose 闲散地游荡/奔跑 
③ (separate) 零散的 língsǎn de ‹fragments, sheet of paper›; 散装的 sǎnzhuāng de ‹biscuits, cheese, vegetables›loose stones 碎石子 to sell [something] loose 零卖某物 
④ (not tight or constricting) 宽松的 kuānsōng de ‹clothing›; 松弛的 sōngchí de ‹skin›leave the scarf loose 把围巾系得松些 a loose fold of skin 松弛的皱皮 
⑤ (not compact) 疏松的 shūsōng de ‹soil, earth›; 松软的 sōngruǎn de ‹chippings›; 松散的 sōngsǎn de ‹grouping, organization›a loose scrum (rugby) 乱集团争球 to have loose links with [somebody] 与某人关系疏远 
⑥ (imprecise) 不准确的 bù zhǔnquè de ‹translation, rendering, definition›; 不严谨的 bù yánjǐn de ‹style, wording, thinking, argument›; 松散的 sōngsǎn de ‹structure, discipline›
⑦ pejorative (dissolute) 放荡的 fàngdàng de ‹person, living›; 堕落的 duòluò de ‹morals›; 轻率的 qīngshuài de ‹talk›
⑧ Medicine 腹泻的 fùxiè de to have loose bowels 拉肚子 
B.  noun to be on the loose 不受约束 bù shòu yuēshù a convict/puma on the loose 逍遥法外的罪犯/到处乱跑的美洲狮 
C.  transitive verb 
① literary (set free) 放开 fàngkāi ‹animal, person›he loosed their bonds 他为他们松了绑 
② (shoot) 射 shè ‹arrow›to loose a volley 齐射 PHRASAL VERB loose off 
A.  transitive verb[loose off something] 
① (fire, discharge) 放 fàng ‹gun›; 射 shè ‹arrow›; 发射 fāshè ‹shells›
② figurative (verbally) 不受约束地表达 bù shòu yuēshù de biǎodá he loosed off a volley of abuse 他大骂一通 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (shoot) 射击 shèjī to loose off at [somebody]/[something]; 朝某人/某物射击 
② figurative (verbally) 谩骂 mànmà to loose off at [somebody]/[something]; 对某人/某事物大骂一通 
loose 
lo͞os

▶adjective
1 not firmly or tightly fixed in place; detached or able to be detached: a loose tooth 
the truck's trailer came loose. 
• not held or tied together; not packaged or placed in a container: wear your hair loose 
pockets bulging with loose change. 
• (of a person or animal) free from confinement; not bound or tethered: the bull was loose with cattle in the field 
the tethered horses broke loose. 
• not strict or exact: a loose interpretation. 
• not close or compact in structure: a loose weave 
figurative : a loose federation of political and industrial groups. 
• (of feces) containing excessive liquid: many patients report loose bowel movements.
2 (of a garment) not fitting tightly or closely: she slipped into a loose T-shirt and shorts.
3 relaxed; physically slack: she swung back into her easy, loose stride. 
• careless and indiscreet in what is said: there is too much loose talk about the situation. 
• dated promiscuous; immoral: she ran the risk of being called a loose woman. 
• (of the ball or puck in a game) in play but not in any player's possession. 
▶verb [with object] set free; release: the hounds have been loosed. 
• untie; unfasten: the ropes were loosed. 
• relax (one's grip): he loosed his grip suddenly. 
PHRASES
hang (or stay) loose [often as imperative] informal, chiefly North American be relaxed; refrain from taking anything too seriously: hang loose, baby! on the loose having escaped from confinement: a serial killer is on the loose.DERIVATIVES looseness 
ˈlo͞osnəs 
nounORIGIN Middle English loos ‘free from bonds,’ from Old Norse lauss, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch and German los . usage: The adjective loose, meaning ‘not tight,’ should not be confused with the verb loose, which means ‘let go’: they loosed the reins and let the horse gallop. This verb in turn should not be confused with the verb lose, which means ‘be deprived of, fail to keep’: I will lose my keys if I don't mend the hole in my pocket.
