lord 
BrE lɔːd, AmE lɔrd 

A.  noun 
① (ruler) 君主 jūnzhǔ to be lord of [something]/[somebody]; 是某国/某人的君主 the lord of the manor 庄园主 
② Lord BrE (nobleman) 勋爵 xūnjué the (House of) Lords 上议院 drunk as a lord 酩酊大醉的 
③ BrE (form of address) 大人 dàren 
④ Religion 主 zhǔ 
⑤ colloquial (in exclamations) 天哪 tiān na good lord! 老天！ lord (only) knows! colloquial （只有）天晓得！ 
B.  transitive verb to lord it over [somebody] colloquial 对某人逞威风 duì mǒu rén chěng wēifēng 
lord 
lôrd

▶noun someone or something having power, authority, or influence; a master or ruler: lord of the sea 
lords of the jungle 
our lord the king. 
• (in the UK) a man of noble rank or high office; a peer. 
• (Lord) (in the UK) a title given formally to a baron, and less formally to a marquess, earl, or viscount (prefixed to a family or territorial name): Lord Derby. 
• (the Lords) (in the UK) the House of Lords, or its members collectively. 
• (Lord) (in the UK) a courtesy title given to a younger son of a duke or marquess (prefixed to a Christian name): Lord John Russell. 
• (in the UK) in compound titles of other people of authority: Lord High Executioner. 
• historical a feudal superior, especially the proprietor of a manor house. 
• (Lord) a name for God or Christ: give thanks to the Lord. 
▶exclam. (Lord) used in exclamations expressing surprise or worry, or for emphasis: Lord, I'm cold! 
▶verb
1 [with object] archaic confer the title of Lord upon.
2 (lord it over) act in a superior and domineering manner toward (someone). 
PHRASES
live like a lord live sumptuously. Lord (God) of hosts God as Lord over earthly or heavenly armies. lord of the manor the owner of a manor house (formerly the master of a feudal manor). Lord of Misrule historical a person presiding over Christmas games and revelry in a wealthy household. the Lord's Day Sunday. the Lord's Prayer the prayer taught by Jesus to his disciples, beginning “Our Father.” the Lord's Supper the Eucharist; Holy Communion (especially in Protestant use). My Lord (in the UK) a polite form of address to judges, bishops, and certain noblemen. Our Lord Christ.DERIVATIVES lordless adjective. lordlike 
-ˌlik 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English hlāford, from hlāfweard ‘bread-keeper,’ from a Germanic base (see loaf1, ward). Compare with lady .
