lost 
BrE lɒst, AmE lɔst, lɑst 

A.  past tense,past participle → lose 
B.  adjective 
① (unable to be found) 遗失的 yíshī de ‹key, wallet, treasure›; 走失的 zǒushī de ‹pet›a lost article 失物 her watch is or got lost 她的手表丢了 get lost! colloquial 快滚！ to give [somebody]/[something] up for lost; 认定某人已死/某事没有希望 
② (gone, vanished) 逝去的 shìqù de ‹youth, happiness›; 消逝的 xiāoshì de ‹civilization›; 失传的 shīchuán de ‹art, craft, skill›to be lost to [something]; 不再属于某物 a promising talent lost to the sport 体育界失去的未来之星 
③ (missed, wasted) 错失的 cuòshī de ‹opportunity, chance›; 浪费的 làngfèi de ‹time›to be lost on [somebody]; (make no impression) 未被某人注意 (be wasted) 未被某人理解 
④ (astray) 迷路的 mílù de to get lost 迷路 
⑤ (uncomprehending, bewildered) 困惑的 kùnhuò de ‹look, expression›I was completely lost 我彻底糊涂了 I'd be lost without you/the dictionary 没有你/词典的话，我会不知所措 I felt lost after she left 她走之后我感到迷惘 to be lost for words 无言以对 
⑥ predicative (rapt, absorbed) 专注的 zhuānzhù de to be lost in thought/meditation 陷入沉思/冥想 to be lost in a book/newspaper 专心致志读书/看报 to be lost in wonder at [something] 对某物惊叹不已 to be lost to the world 对周围的事浑然不觉 
⑦ (doomed) 毁灭的 huǐmiè de all is lost 全完了 like a lost soul 失魂落魄地 a lost cause 败局已定的事 
lost 
lôst läst
past and past participle of lose. 
▶adjective
1 unable to find one's way; not knowing one's whereabouts: Help! We're lost! 
they got lost in the fog. 
• unable to be found: he turned up with my lost golf clubs. 
• (of a person) very confused or insecure or in great difficulties: she stood there clutching a drink, feeling completely lost 
I'd be lost without her.
2 denoting something that has been taken away or cannot be recovered: if only one could recapture one's lost youth! 
• (of time or an opportunity) not used advantageously; wasted: the decision meant a lost opportunity to create 200 jobs. 
• having perished or been destroyed: a memorial to the lost crewmen.
3 (of a game or contest) in which a defeat has been sustained: the lost election of 1994. 
PHRASES
all is not lost used to suggest that there is still some chance of success or recovery. be lost for words be so surprised, confused, or upset that one cannot think what to say. be lost on fail to influence or be noticed or appreciated by (someone): the significance of his remarks was not lost on Scott. be lost to be no longer affected by or accessible to: once a vital member of the community, he is now lost to the world. get lost [often in imperative] informal go away (used as an expression of anger or impatience): Why don't you leave me alone? Go on, get lost! give someone up for lost stop expecting that a missing person will be found alive. make up for lost time do something faster or more often in order to compensate for not having done it quickly or often enough before.
