low
1 
BrE ləʊ, AmE loʊ 

A.  adjective 
① (close to the ground) 低的 dī de ‹ceiling, attitude, level›; 低矮的 dī'ǎi de ‹hill, building, table›low cloud 低云 low ground/wall 低地/矮墙 a low point on the scale 标尺的小刻度 to make a low bow 深鞠一躬 to be low at the front/back «dress» 前胸/后背开得低 to be low in the sky «sun, moon» 低悬在天空 the ship was low in the water 这艘船吃水很深 the return was very low over the net (in tennis, badminton etc.) 回球几乎擦网而过 a low blow (in boxing) 对下身的击打 
② (minimal, less than normal) 低的 dī de ‹rate, temperature, speed, price›; 少的 shǎo de ‹quantity›; 小的 xiǎo de ‹pressure, number, percentage›; 轻的 qīng de ‹weight›a low IQ 低智商 to be in the low forties 40岁出头 lowest common multiple 最小公倍数 to be (a bit) on the low side （有些）偏低 to be low in …; …含量低 ‹salt, polyunsaturates›to be low on; 缺少 ‹petrol, staff, team spirit›stocks are low 存货不足 to get or run low (of water, ammunition) 即将耗尽 (of stocks of goods) 短缺 to run low on [something]; 缺乏某物 
③ (inferior) 低的 dī de ‹grade, standard, expectation›; 差的 chà de ‹quality, morale›a low achiever 成绩不佳的人 it was the low point in our relationship 那是我们关系的低谷 
④ (humble, unimportant) 低微的 dīwēi de ‹origin›; 低等的 dīděng de ‹rank›an official in a low grade job 从事低级工作的官员 low in the hierarchy 职级低的 to be a low priority (for [somebody]) （对某人来说）不重要 to be low on the list of things [somebody] has to do 不是某人的当务之急 
⑤ (base, vulgar) 卑劣的 bēiliè de ‹character, behaviour›; 低俗的 dīsú de ‹humour, comedy›a person of low morals 小人 
⑥ (depressed physically) 衰弱的 shuāiruò de (depressed psychologically) 消沉的 xiāochén de to feel low 消沉 to lay [somebody] low; (knock sb. down) 把某人击倒在地 (make sb. feel weak) 使某人病倒 
⑦ (deep in pitch) 低的 dī de (quiet, soft) 轻的 qīng de a low note 低音 at the low end of my range 在我音域的下限 in a low voice 轻声地 qīngshēng de at low volume 用低音量 he gave a low laugh/whistle 他轻声一笑/轻轻吹了声口哨 
⑧ (dim) 微弱的 wēiruò de ‹light, glow›
B.  adverb 
① (near the ground) 低地 dīdì to come/go in low 屈身进来/过去 to swoop/fly/pass low over [something] 从低空掠过/飞过/越过某物 the moon hung low (down) in the eastern sky 月亮低悬于东方天际 to bend/bow low 深深地弯腰/鞠躬 to keep low 保持低姿势 low down on the page 在页面下方 lower down the hill/valley 更靠近山脚/谷底的 the dress is cut low at the front 这条连衣裙的前胸开得很低 to be brought low (defeated) 被打败 (destroyed) 被摧毁 I wouldn't sink or stoop so low as to do [something] 我才不会堕落到做某事的地步 
② (at a reduced level) 低水平地 dīshuǐpíng de to buy low 买得便宜 to mark [something] low 给…打低分 ‹essay›to rate [somebody] pretty low 对某人评价颇低 to stand low in [somebody's] esteem 在某人心目中地位很低 to fall low «stocks, reserves» 减少 the fire was burning low 火要燃尽了 to turn the radio/lights/heating down low 调低收音机音量/调暗灯光/关小暖气 
③ (at a deep pitch) 用低音调 yòng dīyīndiào ‹sing, play›to go low 降低声调 
④ (quietly, softly) 轻声地 qīngshēng de ‹speak, sing›to leave the television on low 把电视机音量调低开着 to whisper [something] low in [somebody's] ear 在某人耳边低语某事 
C.  noun 
① Meteorology 低气压区 dīqìyāqū 
② (low point) 低点 dīdiǎn my career has had its highs and its lows 我的事业起起伏伏 to be at/to hit an all-time or a record low 处于/达到历史最低点 the dollar has reached or sunk to a new low 美元汇价降到了新低 
low
1 
lō

▶adjective
1 of less than average height from top to bottom or to the top from the ground: the school is a long, low building 
a low table. 
• situated not far above the ground, the horizon, or sea level: the sun was low in the sky. 
• located at or near the bottom of something: low back pain 
there were stunted trees low down on the ridge. 
• Baseball (of a pitched ball) below a certain level, such as the batter's knees, as it comes across home plate, and thus outside the strike zone. 
• (of a river or lake) below the usual water level; shallow. 
• (of latitude) near the equator. 
• (of women's clothing) cut so as to reveal the neck and the upper part of the breasts: the low neckline of her blouse 
[in combination] : a low-cut black dress. 
• Phonetics (of a vowel) pronounced with the tongue held low in the mouth; open. 
• (of a sound or voice) not loud or high: his low, husky voice 
they were told to keep the volume very low.
2 below average in amount, extent, or intensity; small: bringing up children on a low income 
shops with low levels of staff and service 
cook over low heat. 
• (of a substance or food) containing smaller quantities than usual of a specified ingredient: vegetables are low in calories 
[in combination] : low-fat spreads. 
• (of a supply) small or reduced in quantity: food and ammunition were running low. 
• having a small or reduced quantity of a supply: they were low on fuel.
3 ranking below other people or things in importance or class: jobs with low status 
training will be given low priority. 
• (of art or culture) considered to be inferior in quality and refinement: the dual traditions of high and low art. 
• less good than is expected or desired; inferior: the standard of living is low. 
• unscrupulous or dishonest: practice a little low cunning 
low tricks. 
• (of an opinion) unfavorable: he had a low opinion of himself.
4 depressed or lacking in energy: I was feeling low. 
▶noun a low point, level or figure: his popularity ratings are at an all-time low. 
• a particularly bad or difficult moment: the highs and lows of an actor's life. 
• informal a state of depression or low spirits. 
• an area of low atmospheric pressure; a depression. 
▶adverb
1 in or into a low position or state: she pressed on, bent low to protect her face.
2 in a low voice or at a low pitch: we were talking low so we wouldn't wake Dean. 
PHRASES
the lowest of the low the people regarded as the most immoral or socially inferior of all.DERIVATIVES lowness 
ˈlōnəs 
nounORIGIN Middle English: from Old Norse lágr, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch laag, also to lie1 .
