luck 
BrE lʌk, AmE lək 
nounUncountable
① (fortune) 运气 yùnqi good/bad or ill luck 好运/厄运 to be bad/good luck to do [something]; 做某事走运/不走运 to bring ([somebody]) good/bad luck （给某人）带来好运/厄运 I've had nothing but bad luck with that car 这辆汽车尽让我倒霉 to have the good/bad luck to do [something]; 做某事运气真好/不好 luck is on our side 我们走运了 as luck would have it, … 碰巧，… good luck! 祝你好运！ better luck next time! 祝你下次运气好些！ I wish you all the best of luck 祝你一切顺心如意 bad or hard luck! 真不幸！ just my luck! 我总是不走运！ worse luck! 真倒霉！ to be down on one's luck 穷困潦倒 to try one's luck 碰运气 it's the luck of the draw 此事全凭运气 to depend on the luck of the draw 凭运气 
② (good fortune) 好运 hǎoyùn with luck, … 幸运的话，… he hasn't had much luck with women 他女人缘不佳 to wear [something] for luck 穿戴某物以求好运 by a bit or stroke of luck 碰巧 what a stroke of luck! 真是巧了！ to have the luck to do [something]; 有幸做某事 any luck with the job hunting? 工作找得有眉目了吗？ have you found it? — no luck yet 找到了吗？──还没有 no such luck! 才没这样的好运气呢！ to have the devil's own luck 非常幸运 to be in/out of luck 运气好/不好 to run out of luck 不再走运 my luck's in! 我运气来了！ he did
20 press-ups and one for luck 他做了20个俯卧撑，又做了一个图个吉利 PHRASAL VERB luck out intransitive verb AmE colloquial 走运 zǒuyùn 
luck 
lək

▶noun success or failure apparently brought by chance rather than through one's own actions: it was just luck that the first kick went in 
this charm was supposed to bring good luck. 
• chance considered as a force that causes good or bad things to happen: luck was with me. 
• something regarded as bringing about or portending good or bad things: I don't like Friday—it's bad luck. 
▶verb [no object] (luck into/onto) informal chance to find or acquire: he lucked into a disc-jockey job. 
• (luck out) North American achieve success or advantage by good luck: I lucked out and found a wonderful woman. 
PHRASES
as luck would have it used to indicate that something happened purely by chance: as luck would have it, his route took him very near where they lived. tough luck informal used to express a lack of sympathy: tough luck if they complain. be in (or out of) luck be fortunate (or unfortunate). for luck to bring good fortune: I wear this crystal under my costume for luck. good (or the best of) luck used to express wishes for success: good luck with your studies! the luck of the draw the outcome of chance rather than something one can control: quality of care depends largely on the luck of the draw. no such luck informal used to express disappointment that something has not happened or is unlikely to happen. try one's luck do something that involves risk or luck, hoping to succeed: he thought he'd try his luck at farming in Canada. with (any or a little or a bit of) luck expressing the hope that something will happen in the way described: with luck we should be there in time for breakfast. worse luck British informal used to express regret about something: I have to go to secretarial school, worse luck.ORIGIN late Middle English (as a verb): perhaps from Middle Low German or Middle Dutch lucken. The noun use (late 15th century) is from Middle Low German lucke, related to Dutch geluk,German Glück, of West Germanic origin and possibly related to lock1 .
