magic 
BrE ˈmadʒɪk, AmE ˈmædʒɪk 

A.  nounUncountable
① (supernatural power) 魔法 mófǎ to suddenly disappear as if by magic 突然神奇地消失 to practise magic 施法术 to work magic 产生奇迹 to work like magic 功效神奇 
② (conjuring tricks) 魔术 móshù to do (some) magic 变戏法 
③ (enchantment) 魔力 mólì the magic of music 音乐的魅力 
④ colloquial (skill of person, performance) 卓越的才能 zhuóyuè de cáinéng 
B.  adjective 
① (supernatural) 有魔力的 yǒu mólì de 
② (special) 神奇的 shénqí de 
③ BrE colloquial (wonderful) 好极了的 hǎo jí le de it's magic! 棒极了！ 
C.  transitive verb (present participle etc. -ck-) to magic [something] away; （似）用魔法使某物消失 (sì) yòng mófǎ shǐ mǒu wù xiāoshī the paintings had been magicked away 那些画已经不翼而飞 to magic [something] out of [something]; （似）用魔法使某物从某物中出来 
magic 
ˈmajik

▶noun the power of apparently influencing the course of events by using mysterious or supernatural forces: do you believe in magic? 
suddenly, as if by magic, the doors start to open. 
• mysterious tricks, such as making things disappear and appear again, performed as entertainment. 
• a quality that makes something seem removed from everyday life, especially in a way that gives delight: the magic of the theater. 
• informal something that has a delightfully unusual quality: their seaside town is pure magic. 
▶adjective
1 used in magic or working by magic; having or apparently having supernatural powers: a magic wand. 
• [attributive] very effective in producing results, especially desired ones: confidence is the magic ingredient needed to spark recovery.
2 informal wonderful; exciting: what a magic moment. 
▶verb (magics, magicking, magicked) [with object] move, change, or create by or as if by magic: he must have been magicked out of the car at the precise second it exploded. 
PHRASES
like magic remarkably effectively or rapidly: it repels rain like magic.ORIGIN late Middle English (also in the sense ‘a magical procedure’): from Old French magique, from Latin magicus (adjective), late Latin magica (noun), from Greek magikē (tekhnē)‘(art of) a magus’: magi were regarded as magicians.
