major 
BrE ˈmeɪdʒə, AmE ˈmeɪdʒər 

A.  adjective 
① (important) 重要的 zhòngyào de major changes 重大变化 a major road 干道 
② (serious) 严重的 yánzhòng de a major problem 难题 
③ (main) 主要的 zhǔyào de ‹part, share›
④ Music 大音阶的 dàyīnjiē de ‹scale›; 大调的 dàdiào de ‹key›the key of D major D大调 
B.  noun 
① Military 少校 shàoxiào 
② AmE (subject) 主修课程 zhǔxiū kèchéng 
③ AmE (student) 主修学生 zhǔxiū xuésheng an English major 英语专业的学生 
④ Music 大调 dàdiào 
C.  intransitive verb AmE 主修 zhǔxiū to major in Chemistry 主修化学 
major 
ˈmājər

▶adjective
1 [attributive] important, serious, or significant: the use of drugs is a major problem. 
• greater or more important; main: he got the major share of the spoils. 
• (of a surgical operation) serious or life-threatening: he had to undergo major surgery.
2 Music (of a scale) having an interval of a semitone between the third and fourth degrees and the seventh and eighth degrees. Contrasted with minor. 
• (of an interval) equivalent to that between the tonic and another note of a major scale, and greater by a semitone than the corresponding minor interval. 
• [postpositive] (of a key) based on a major scale, tending to produce a bright or joyful effect: Prelude in G Major.
3 Logic (of a term) occurring as the predicate in the conclusion of a categorical syllogism. 
• (of a premise) containing the major term in a categorical syllogism.
4 British dated (appended to a surname in some schools) indicating the elder of two brothers. 
▶noun
1 an army officer of high rank, in particular (in the US Army, Air Force, and Marine Corps) an officer ranking above captain and below lieutenant colonel. [Shortening of sergeant major, formerly a high rank.]
2 Music a major key, interval, or scale. 
• (Major) Bell-ringing a system of change-ringing using eight bells.
3 North American a student's principal subject or course of study. 
• [often with modifier] a student specializing in a specified subject: a math major.
4 a major world organization, company, or competition: it's not unreasonable to believe someone can win all four majors. 
• (the majors) the major leagues.
5 a person of full legal age.
6 Logic a major term or premise.
7 Bridge short for major suit. 
▶verb [no object] (major in) North American & Australian/NZ specialize in (a particular subject) at a college or university: I was trying to decide if I should major in drama or English. ORIGIN Middle English: from Latin, comparative of magnus ‘great’; perhaps influenced by French majeur .
