majority 
BrE məˈdʒɒrɪti, AmE məˈdʒɔrədi, məˈdʒɑrədi 
noun 
① Countableplus singular or plural verb BrE (greater part) 大多数 dàduōshù the majority of the voters/population 大多数投票者/人口 to be in a or the majority 占多数 before noun 多数的 duōshù de a majority verdict 多数裁决 
② CountablePolitics 多数票 duōshù piào by a majority of 50 以50票的多数 Labour had a large majority over the Conservatives in this constituency 在该选区工党得票数远远超过保守党 
③ UncountableLaw 法定成年年龄 fǎdìng chéngnián niánlíng to reach one's majority 达到法定成年年龄 the age of majority 法定成年年龄 fǎdìng chéngnián niánlíng 
majority 
məˈjôrədē məˈjärədē

▶noun (plural majorities)
1 the greater number: in the majority of cases all will go smoothly 
[as modifier] : it was a majority decision. 
• US the number by which votes for one candidate in an election are more than those for all other candidates combined. 
• British the number by which the votes for one party or candidate exceed those of the next in rank. 
• a party or group receiving the greater number of votes.
2 the age when a person is legally considered a full adult, in most contexts either
18 or 21.
3 the rank or office of a major. 
PHRASES
be in the majority belong to or constitute the larger group or number: publishing houses where women are in the majority.ORIGIN mid 16th century (denoting superiority): from French majorité, from medieval Latin majoritas, from Latin major (see major) . usage:
1 Strictly speaking, majority should be used with countable nouns to mean ‘the greater number’: the majority of cases. The use of majority with uncountable nouns to mean ‘the greatest part’ ( I spent the majority of the day reading), although common in informal contexts, is not considered good standard English.
2 Majority means more than half: fifty-one out of a hundred is a majority. A plurality is the largest number among three or more. Consider the following scenarios: If Anne received 50 votes, Barry received 30, and Carlos received 20, then Anne received a plurality, and no candidate won a majority. If Anne got 35 votes, Barry 14, and Carlos 51, then Carlos won both the plurality and the majority.
