manage 
BrE ˈmanɪdʒ, AmE ˈmænɪdʒ 

A.  transitive verb 
① (succeed) 完成 wánchéng to manage to do [something]; 做成某事 I managed to find us a hotel 我为大家找到了旅馆 she managed to offend everyone 她居然把大伙都得罪了 
② (find possible) 做得到 zuòdedào can you manage six o'clock? 6点钟你行吗？ I can't manage the meeting 我没法去开会 could you manage lunch on Friday? 星期五你能来吃午饭吗？ I couldn't manage another thing! 我再也吃不下了！ I can manage sixty words per minute 我每分钟可以打60个字 he's not very good at French, but he can manage a few words 他法语不太好，但是勉强能说几句 
③ (administer) 管理 guǎnlǐ ‹finances, organization, department, project›; 经营 jīngyíng ‹business, hotel›a company director must know how to manage risk/debt 公司董事必须懂得如何进行风险/债务管理 
④ (control, supervise) 掌管 zhǎngguǎn ‹team, staff, performer›he managed Manchester United in the 1960s 他曾于20世纪60年代掌管曼联队 he once managed the Beatles 他曾是甲壳虫乐队的经理人 
⑤ Agriculture 开发利用 kāifā lìyòng ‹land, forest›
⑥ (deal with, cope with) 能对付 néng duìfu ‹crisis, stress›parents who have difficulty managing their children 管不住孩子的父母 he knows how to manage her 他知道如何对付她 he gets short of breath and can't manage the stairs 他气喘吁吁，楼梯都上不去了 we could manage one more in the back (of the car) 我们（车）后面还能挤下一个人 
⑦ (organize, use well) 打理 dǎlǐ ‹time, resources›to manage money 理财 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (cope) 应付过去 yìngfu guòqu I can manage by myself 我自己能行 to manage without …; 没有…也能行 we haven't got any more cheese, so I'll have to manage without 我们没有奶酪了，所以我只能将就一下了 to just about manage 勉强能应付 to manage on [something]; 靠…勉强过活 ‹income, amount›
② (be manager) 经营 jīngyíng 
manage 
ˈmanij

▶verb
1 [with object] be in charge of (a company, establishment, or undertaking); administer; run: their elder son managed the farm. 
• administer and regulate (resources under one's control): we manage our cash extremely well. 
• have the position of supervising (staff) at work: the skills needed to manage a young, dynamic team. 
• be the manager of (a sports team or a performer): he managed five or six bands in his career. 
• maintain control or influence over (a person or animal): she manages horses better than anyone I know. 
• control the use or exploitation of (land): the forest is managed to achieve maximum growth.
2 [no object] succeed in surviving or in attaining one's aims, especially against heavy odds; cope: Catherine managed on five hours' sleep a night. 
• [with object] succeed in doing, achieving, or producing (something, especially something difficult): she managed a brave but unconvincing smile 
[with infinitive] : Beth finally managed to hail a cab 
ironic : one fund managed to lose money. 
• [with object] succeed in dealing with or withstanding (something): there was more stress and anxiety than he could manage. 
• [with object] be free to attend on (a certain day) or at (a certain time): he could not manage March 24 after all. ORIGIN mid 16th century (in the sense ‘put (a horse) through the paces of the manège’): from Italian maneggiare, based on Latin manus ‘hand.’
