manner 
BrE ˈmanə, AmE ˈmænər 

A.  noun 
① (way) 方式 fāngshì in a … manner; 以…方式 the piece was played in a rather sloppy manner 这首曲子演奏得相当马虎 the manner in which … …的方式 in such a manner that or as to … 以如此的方式以至于… in like or the same manner 同样地 the manner of [something]/doing [something]; 某事物/做某事的方式 an adverb/adverbial of manner 方式副词/状语 
② (way of behaving) 举止 jǔzhǐ (attitude) 态度 tàidu [somebody's] manner toward(s) [somebody] 某人对某人的态度 she has a good telephone manner 她有良好的电话沟通技巧 
③ Art, Music, Literature (style) 风格 fēnggé in or after the manner of [somebody]; 以某人的风格 
④ (sort, kind) 种类 zhǒnglèi in a manner of speaking 可以说 all manner of X(s) 各种各样的某物 by no or not by any manner of means 决不 (as if) to the manner born （似乎）天生就适合 
B.  manners noun plural 
① (social behaviour) 礼仪 lǐyí good/bad manners 有礼貌/无礼的行为 it's good/bad manners to do [something] 做某事是有礼貌/不礼貌的 to learn (some) manners 学（一些）礼貌 where on earth did she learn her manners? 她究竟从哪里学来的那套举止？ to have no manners 没礼貌 to forget one's manners 失礼 road manners 行车礼貌 manners maketh man proverb 举止见人品 
② formal (social habits, customs) 风俗 fēngsú a comedy of manners 风尚喜剧 
manner 
ˈmanər

▶noun
1 a way in which a thing is done or happens: taking notes in an unobtrusive manner. 
• a style in literature or art: a dramatic poem in the manner of Goethe. 
• Grammar a semantic category of adverbs and adverbials that answer the question “how?”: an adverb of manner. 
• (manner of) chiefly literary a kind or sort of: what manner of man is he?
2 a person's outward bearing or way of behaving toward others: his arrogance and pompous manner 
a shy and diffident manner.
3 (manners) polite or well-bred social behavior: didn't your mother teach you any manners? 
• social behavior or habits: Tim apologized for his son's bad manners. 
• the way a motor vehicle handles or performs: I have no complaints about the performance or road manners. 
PHRASES
all manner of many different kinds of: they accuse me of all manner of evil things. by no (or any) manner of means see means. in a manner of speaking in some sense; so to speak. to the manner born naturally at ease in a specified job or situation: she slipped into a more courtly role as if to the manner born. [with allusion to Shakespeare's Hamlet i. iv. 17.] 
• destined by birth to follow a custom or way of life.DERIVATIVES mannerless adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: from Old French maniere, based on Latin manuarius ‘of the hand,’ from manus ‘hand.’
