manoeuvre 
BrE məˈnuːvə, AmE məˈnuvər
BrE 
A.  transitive verb 
① (move) 熟练谨慎地移动 shúliàn jǐnshèn de yídòng she manoeuvred the car into the garage 她小心翼翼地把车开进车库 
② (manipulate) 操纵 cāozòng to manoeuvre the conversation round to the subject of money 巧妙地把谈话引到金钱问题上 she manoeuvred her way to the top of the company 她施展手腕进入了公司的高层 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (move skilfully) 熟练地移动 shúliàn de yídòng ; (move carefully) 谨慎地移动 jǐnshèn de yídòng 
② (plot, scheme) 用策略 yòng cèlüè to manoeuvre for power 施展策略谋取权力 the new laws have left us little room to manoeuvre 新法律没给我们留下多少回旋的余地 
C.  noun 
① Countable(movement) 机动动作 jīdòng dòngzuò a skilful manoeuvre 熟练的移动 
② Countable(plan, scheme) 策略 cèlüè 
③ Uncountableroom for manoeuvre 回旋余地 huíxuán yúdì 
D.  manoeuvres noun plural Military 演习 yǎnxí to be on manoeuvres 进行演习 
maneuver 
məˈno͞ovər 
(British manoeuvre) 
▶noun
1 a movement or series of moves requiring skill and care: spectacular jumps and other daring maneuvers. 
• a carefully planned scheme or action, especially one involving deception: shady financial maneuvers. 
• the fact or process of taking carefully planned or deceptive action: the economic policy provided no room for maneuver.
2 (maneuvers) a large-scale military exercise of troops, warships, and other forces: the Russian vessel was on maneuvers. 
▶verb (maneuvers, maneuvering, maneuvered)
1 move skillfully or carefully: [no object] : the truck was unable to maneuver comfortably in the narrow street 
[with object] : I'm maneuvering a loaded tray around the floor.
2 [with object] carefully guide or manipulate (someone or something) in order to achieve an end: they were maneuvering him into a betrayal of his countryman. 
• [no object] carefully manipulate a situation to achieve an end: (as noun maneuvering) : two decades of political maneuvering. DERIVATIVES maneuverer 
məˈn(y)o͞ov(ə)rər 
nounORIGIN mid 18th century (as a noun in the sense ‘tactical movement’): from French manœuvre (noun), manœuvrer (verb), from medieval Latin manuoperare, from Latin manus ‘hand’ + operari ‘to work.’
