many 
BrE ˈmɛni, AmE ˈmɛni 

A.  adjective (comparative form more, superlative form most) 许多的 xǔduō de many books/people 很多书/人 too many people/times 太多人/回 people of many kinds 形形色色的人 there are two too many chairs or two chairs too many 多两把椅子 five exams in as many days 5天里5场考试 a good/great many things 许许多多的事情 the temptations are many 诱惑很多 to have one too many colloquial 喝多了 
B.  pronoun 许多 xǔduō how many? 多少？ too many 太多 a good/great many of those books 许多那样的书 many a man/woman 许多男人/女人 four times as many 4倍之多 as many stayed as left 留下的和离去的一样多 many's the day/time that … 许多天/次… 
C.  adverb 更加 gèngjiā there were many more/fewer than last time 比上一次更多/更少 
D.  noun 
① (the masses) the many; 群众 qúnzhòng music for the many 通俗音乐 tōngsú yīnyuè to sacrifice the interests of the few in favour of the many 为了大多数人而牺牲少数人的利益 
② (large number) 很多人 hěn duō rén the many who loved him 曾经爱他的那许多人 
many 
▶adjective many animals were killed: numerous, a great/good deal of, a lot of, plenty of, countless, innumerable, scores of, crowds of, droves of, an army of, a horde of, a multitude of, a multiplicity of, multitudinous, multiple, untold; several, various, sundry, diverse, assorted, multifarious; copious, abundant, profuse, an abundance of, a profusion of; informal lots of, umpteen, loads of, masses of, stacks of, scads of, heaps of, piles of, bags of, tons of, oodles of, dozens of, hundreds of, thousands of, millions of, billions of, zillions of, gazillions of, bajillions of, a slew of, a boatload of, more —— than one can shake a stick at; literary myriad, divers. ANTONYMS few.
▶plural noun the issue of sacrificing the individual for the sake of the many: people, common people, masses, multitude, populace, public, rank and file, proletariat, mob; derogatory hoi polloi, (common) herd, riffraff, rabble, great unwashed, proles, plebs. ANTONYMS few.
WORD LINKS
many multi- , poly- forming words meaning ‘more than one,’ such as multicultural (‘relating to several cultural or ethnic groups’) and polyphonic (‘having many sounds or voices’)Word Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.
