mass 
BrE mas, AmE mæs 

A.  noun 
① Countable(voluminous body) 堆 duī (dense aggregation) 团 tuán a mass of [something]; (of colour, hair, clouds) 一团某物 (of rubber, metal, rock) 一堆某物 (of trees, flowers) 一丛某物 
② Countable(cluster, collection) 大量 dàliàng (large number) 大群 dàqún a mass of [something]; 大量某物 a (great) mass of evidence 大量证据 a (great) mass of examples 大批例证 to be a mass of [something]; 满是某物 he was just or simply a mass of nerves 他非常紧张 
③ Countable(majority) 大多数 dàduōshù (the main part) 主体 zhǔtǐ the mass of people/voters 多数人/选民 
④ UncountablePhysics 质量 zhìliàng 
⑤ Uncountable(bulk) 体积 tǐjī 
B.  masses noun plural 
① the masses (ordinary people) 民众 mínzhòng the working or labouring masses 劳动大众 láodòng dàzhòng 
② especially BrE colloquial (large quantity) 大量 dàliàng masses of [something]; 大量的某物 
C.  adjective 
① (large-scale) 大量的 dàliàng de ‹audience›; 群众性的 qúnzhòngxìng de ‹protest›; 大规模的 dàguīmó de ‹destruction›on a mass scale 大规模 
② (of or for the people) 大众的 dàzhòng de ‹psychology, education›
③ (simultaneous) 大批的 dàpī de ‹resignations, desertions›
D.  transitive verb 集中 jízhōng 
E.  intransitive verb 聚集 jùjí 
mass 
mas

▶noun
1 a coherent, typically large body of matter with no definite shape: a mass of curly hair 
from here the trees were a dark mass. 
• a large number of people or objects crowded together: a mass of cyclists. 
• a large amount of material: a mass of conflicting evidence. 
• (masses) informal a large quantity or amount of something: we get masses of homework. 
• any of the main portions in a painting or drawing that each have some unity in color, lighting, or some other quality: the masterly distribution of masses.
2 (the mass of) the majority of: the great mass of the population had little interest in the project. 
• (the masses) the ordinary people.
3 Physics the quantity of matter that a body contains, as measured by its acceleration under a given force or by the force exerted on it by a gravitational field. 
• (in general use) weight. 
▶adjective [attributive] relating to, done by, or affecting large numbers of people or things: the movie has mass appeal 
a mass exodus of refugees. 
▶verb assemble or cause to assemble into a mass or as one body: [with object] : both countries began massing troops in the region 
[no object] : clouds massed heavily on the horizon. 
PHRASES
be a mass of be completely covered with: his face was a mass of bruises. in the mass as a whole: her genuine affection for humanity in the mass.DERIVATIVES massless adjectiveORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French masse, from Latin massa, from Greek maza ‘barley cake’; perhaps related to massein ‘knead.’
