master 
BrE ˈmɑːstə, AmE ˈmæstər 

A.  noun 
① (person in control) 有控制权的人 yǒu kòngzhìquán de rén to be master of the situation 是局势的控制者 to be master of oneself 自控 to be (the) master of one's fate or destiny 掌握自己的命运 
② (skilled practitioner) 能手 néngshǒu a master of [something]; 某方面的能手 a master at doing [something]; 做某事的能手 
③ (owner of animal, slave) 主人 zhǔrén to be one's own master 自己做主 to meet one's master figurative 变得驯服 
④ Master University (holder of Master's degree) 硕士 shuòshì to have or hold a Master's (degree) 持有硕士学位 to be working for or towards one's Master's (degree) 正在攻读硕士学位 
⑤ BrE School (teacher) 男教师 nán jiàoshī 
⑥ Master BrE (college head) （男）院长 (nán)yuànzhǎng (school head) （男）校长 (nán)xiàozhǎng 
⑦ Master (title of young man) 少爷 shàoye 
⑧ dated (head of household) （男）户主 (nán)hùzhǔ to be master in one's own house 自己当家做主 
⑨ (great artist, player) 大师 dàshī 
⑩ Nautical 船长 chuánzhǎng 
⑪ (original copy) 原版 yuánbǎn 
B.  adjective 
① (main) 主的 zhǔ de ‹suite›; 总的 zǒng de ‹control, switch›to play one's master card 打出王牌 
② (original) 原版的 yuánbǎn de ‹print›
③ (skilled) 技艺精湛的 jìyì jīngzhàn de ‹craftsman, chef, musician›; 老练的 lǎoliàn de ‹smuggler, spy›
C.  transitive verb 
① (become proficient in) 精通 jīngtōng ‹subject, language›to master the art of doing [something] 掌握做某事的技巧 
② (overcome) 控制 kòngzhì ‹person, animal, situation, emotion›; 克服 kèfú ‹problem›
master
1 
ˈmastər

▶noun
1 chiefly historical a man who has people working for him, especially servants or slaves: he acceded to his master's wishes. 
• a person who has dominance or control of something: he was master of the situation. 
• a machine or device directly controlling another: [as modifier] : a master cylinder. Compare with slave. 
• dated a male head of a household: the master of the house. 
• the owner of a dog, horse, or other domesticated animal.
2 a skilled practitioner of a particular art or activity: I'm a master of disguise. 
• a great artist, especially one belonging to the accepted canon: the work of the great masters is spread around the art galleries of the world. 
• a very strong chess or bridge player, especially one who has qualified for the title at international tournaments: a chess master. See also grand master. 
• (Masters) [treated as singular] (in some sports) a class for competitors over the usual age for the highest level of competition.
3 a person who holds a second or further degree from a university or other academic institution (only in titles and set expressions): a master's degree 
a Master of Arts. 
• (master's) a postgraduate degree: I had a master's in computer engineering.
4 a man in charge of an organization or group, in particular: 
• chiefly British a male schoolteacher, especially at a public or prep school. 
• the head of a college or school. 
• the captain of a merchant ship.
5 used as a title prefixed to the name of a boy not old enough to be called “Mr.”: Master James Williams. 
• archaic a title for a man of high rank or learning. 
• the title of the heir apparent of a Scottish viscount or baron.
6 an original movie, recording, or document from which copies can be made: [as modifier] : the master tape. 
▶adjective [attributive]
1 having or showing very great skill or proficiency: a heart-warming story from a master storyteller. 
• denoting a person skilled in a particular trade and able to teach others: a master bricklayer.
2 main; principal: the apartment's master bathroom has a free-standing oval bathtub. 
▶verb [with object]
1 acquire complete knowledge or skill in (an accomplishment, technique, or art): I never mastered Latin.
2 gain control of; overcome: I managed to master my fears.
3 make a master copy of (a movie or record). DERIVATIVES masterdom 
-dəm 
noun. masterhood 
-ˌho͝od 
noun. masterless 
ˈmastərləs 
adjective. mastership 
ˈmastərˌSHip 
nounORIGIN Old English mæg(i)ster (later reinforced by Old French maistre), from Latin magister; probably related to magis ‘more’ (i.e., ‘more important’).
