match
1 
BrE matʃ, AmE mætʃ 

A.  noun 
① (Sport) especially BrE 比赛 bǐsài an away/a home match 客场/主场比赛 a shouting/slanging match 大声争吵/互相谩骂 
② (equal, challenger) 对手 duìshǒu a good/poor match 实力相当/实力不济的对手 to meet one's match 棋逢对手 to be a/no match for [somebody]; 是/不是某人的对手 to be more than [somebody's] match 胜过某人 
③ (pairing) 相配之物 xiāngpèi zhī wù a good/poor/perfect match 很/不/完全般配的东西 to form a match 匹配 pǐpèi the blood sample is a perfect match with or for that found at the scene of the crime 血样与犯罪现场发现的血迹完全一致 
④ (partner) 搭档 dādàng to make a good match (for [somebody]) 是（某人）很好的搭档 don't you think they're a good match? 你不觉得他们是很好的一对吗？ 
⑤ (marriage) 婚姻 hūnyīn (arrangement of marriage) 婚配 hūnpèi a good/an unfortunate match 美满/不幸的婚姻 to make a match 结婚 
B.  transitive verb 
① (put together appropriately) 使相配 shǐ xiāngpèi to match A and B or A with B or A to B 把A和B配对 can you match the names to the photos? 你能把姓名和照片对上号吗？ 
② (harmonize with) 和…相配 hé… xiāngpèi ‹colour, furnishings›Medicine 和…匹配 hé… pǐpèi ‹blood type, bone marrow›
③ (correspond to) 与…一致 yǔ… yīzhì ‹ability, quality, description›which word matches the definition given? 哪个词符合给出的定义？ 
④ (compete with, equal) 比得上 bǐdeshàng ‹standard›to match [somebody] at tennis 在打网球上和某人旗鼓相当 match that if you can! 有本事你来试一试！ the government will match your contribution dollar for dollar 你捐出多少钱，政府就会拿出多少钱 to be matched (by [something]); （与某物）旗鼓相当 his wit cannot be matched 他的机智无与伦比 
⑤ (put in competition, pit) 使…较量 shǐ… jiàoliàng ‹person, team›; 比试 bǐshi ‹ability, quality›they matched wits 他们展开了斗智 to match one's skill against [somebody] else's 和某人比技巧 
C.  intransitive verb «parts, garments, colours» 相配 xiāngpèi Medicine «blood types, samples» 匹配 pǐpèi I can't get the two sides to match 我不能使双方达成一致 shoes with handbag to match 有手提包搭配的鞋 PHRASAL VERB match up 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (fit together) «parts, designs» 相配 xiāngpèi 
② to match up to [something] (be as good as, equal) 比得上 bǐdeshàng ‹standard, quality›; 与…相适应 yǔ… xiāng shìyìng ‹reputation, hopes›somehow it doesn't quite match up to my expectations 不知为什么事情总不如我所料想的 
B.  transitive verb[match something up, match up something] 使…相配 shǐ… xiāngpèi ‹garments, colours›
match
1 
maCH

▶noun
1 a contest in which people or teams compete against each other in a particular sport: a boxing match.
2 a person or thing able to contend with another as an equal in quality or strength: they were no match for the trained mercenaries.
3 a person or thing that resembles or corresponds to another: the child's identical twin would be a perfect match for organ donation. 
• Computing a string that fulfills the specified conditions of a computer search. 
• a pair that corresponds or is very similar: the headdresses and bouquet were a perfect match. 
• the fact or appearance of corresponding: stones of a perfect match and color.
4 a person viewed in regard to their eligibility for marriage, especially as regards class or wealth: he was an unsuitable match for any of their girls. 
• a marriage: a dynastic match. 
▶verb [with object]
1 correspond or cause to correspond in some essential respect; make or be harmonious: [with object] : we bought green and blue curtains to match the bedspread 
she matched her steps to his 
[no object] : the jacket and pants do not match. 
• team (someone or something) with someone or something else appropriate or harmonious: they matched suitably qualified applicants with institutions that had vacancies 
she was trying to match the draperies to the couch.
2 be equal to (something) in quality or strength: his anger matched her own. 
• succeed in reaching or equaling (a standard or quality): he tried to match her nonchalance. 
• equalize (two coupled electrical impedances) so as to bring about the maximum transfer of power from one to the other.
3 place (a person or group) in contest or competition with another: the big names were matched against nobodies 
(as adjective, with submodifier matched) : evenly matched teams. 
PHRASES
make a match form a partnership, especially by getting married. meet one's match encounter one's equal in strength or ability: Iris had met her match. to match corresponding in some essential respect with something previously mentioned or chosen: a new coat and a hat to match.PHRASAL VERBS match up to be as good as or equal to: she matches up to the challenges of the job. match someone with archaic bring about the marriage of someone to: try if you can to match her with a duke.DERIVATIVES matchable adjectiveORIGIN Old English gemæcca ‘mate, companion’; related to the base of make .
