material 
BrE məˈtɪərɪəl, AmE məˈtɪriəl 

A.  noun 
① Countable and uncountable(substance) 材料 cáiliào waste material 废料 explosive/radioactive material 爆炸物/放射性物质 natural materials 天然原料 clothes made out of natural materials 天然材料制成的衣服 
② Countable and uncountable(fabric) 布料 bùliào dress material 衣料 cotton material 棉布 
③ Countable and uncountable(information, data) 资料 zīliào promotional/publicity/reference material 促销/宣传/参考资料 teaching or course material 教材 to collect or gather material 搜集资料 material about or on [something]/[somebody]; 有关某事物/某人的资料 material for [something]; 某物的素材 
④ Uncountable(subject matter) 内容 nèiróng the material in the magazine is controversial 杂志内容有争议 to write one's own material 自己创作 
⑤ Uncountablefigurative (suitable person or people) 人才 réncái manager/executive material 经理/管理人才 he is (not) university material 他（不）是上大学的料 
B.  materials noun plural (equipment) 用具 yòngjù writing materials 书写用具 
C.  adjective 
① attributive (physical, concrete) 物质的 wùzhì de ‹world, support, damage›; 有形的 yǒuxíng de ‹object, substance›(bodily) 肉体的 ròutǐ de ‹need›material comforts 物质享受 to do [something] for material gain 为了物质利益做某事 in material terms 从物质意义上讲 
② (significant) 重要的 zhòngyào de ‹assistance, change›of material benefit to the workers 对工人有实质利益的 
③ (relevant) 有关的 yǒuguān de ‹fact, question›Law 决定性的 juédìngxìng de ‹evidence, witness›to be material to [something]; 与…相关 ‹argument, case›
material 
məˈtirēəl

▶noun
1 the matter from which a thing is or can be made: goats can eat more or less any plant material 
materials such as brass 
highly flammable materials. 
• (usually materials) things needed for an activity: cleaning materials. 
• [with adjective or noun modifier] a person of a specified quality or suitability: he's not really Olympic material.
2 facts, information, or ideas for use in creating a book or other work: there is much good material here for priests to use in sermons. 
• items, especially songs or jokes, comprising a performer's act: a band playing original material.
3 cloth or fabric: a piece of dark material 
dress materials. 
▶adjective
1 [attributive] denoting or consisting of physical objects rather than the mind or spirit: the material world 
moral and material support. 
• concerned with physical needs or desires: material living standards have risen. 
• concerned with the matter of reasoning, not its form: political conflict lacks mathematical or material certitude.
2 important; essential; relevant: the insects did not do any material damage to the crop. 
• chiefly Law (of evidence or a fact) significant, influential, or relevant, especially to the extent of determining a cause or affecting a judgment: information that could be material to a murder inquiry. ORIGIN late Middle English (in the sense ‘relating to matter’): from late Latin materialis, adjective from Latin materia ‘matter.’
