mature 
BrE məˈtʃʊə, AmE məˈtʃʊr, məˈtʊr 

A.  adjective 
① (fully grown, developed) 成熟的 chéngshú de ‹animal, plant, tree, market, piece of work›she was now physically mature 她如今身体已发育成熟 
② (sensible) 明智的 míngzhì de ‹attitude›; 懂事的 dǒngshì de ‹child›a mature and sensible attitude 一副深谙世事的态度 
③ euphemistic (middle-aged, old) 中年的 zhōngnián de a person of mature years or a mature age 中年人 
④ (adult) 成年的 chéngnián de 
⑤ formal (careful, thorough) 深思熟虑的 shēnsī shúlǜ de after or upon mature reflection/consideration 经过深思熟虑/慎重考虑 
⑥ Culinary 发酵成熟的 fājiào chéngshú de ‹cheese, wine, whisky›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (physically, psychologically) 成熟 chéngshú 
② Culinary «wine, whisky, cheese» 发酵成熟 fājiào chéngshú 
③ Finance «bill, loan, policy» 到期 dàoqī 
C.  transitive verb 使…发酵成熟 shǐ… fājiào chéngshú ‹cheese, whisky, wine›
mature 
məˈCHo͝or məˈto͝or

▶adjective (maturer, maturest)
1 fully developed physically; full-grown: she was now a mature woman 
owls are sexually mature at one year 
mature trees. 
• having reached an advanced stage of mental or emotional development characteristic of an adult: a young man mature beyond his years. 
• (of thought or planning) careful and thorough: on mature reflection he decided they should not go. 
• used euphemistically to describe someone as being middle-aged or old: Miss Walker was a mature lady when she married. 
• (of a style) fully developed: Van Gogh's mature work. 
• (of certain foodstuffs or drinks) ready for consumption.
2 denoting an economy, industry, or market that has developed to a point where substantial expansion and investment no longer takes place.
3 (of a bill) due for payment. 
▶verb [no object]
1 (of an organism) become physically mature: children mature at different ages 
the trees take at least thirty years to mature 
she matured into a woman. 
• (of a person) reach an advanced stage of mental or emotional development: men mature as they grow older. 
• (with reference to certain foodstuffs or drinks) become or cause to become ready for consumption: [no object] : leave the cheese to mature 
[with object] : the Scotch is matured for a minimum of three years.
2 (of an insurance policy, security, etc.) reach the end of its term and hence become payable. DERIVATIVES maturely 
məˈCHo͝o(ə)rlē məˈt(y)o͝o(ə)rlē 
adverbORIGIN late Middle English: from Latin maturus ‘timely, ripe’; perhaps related to matins .
