means 
BrE miːnz, AmE minz 

A.  noun(plural means) (method) 方法 fāngfǎ (instrument) 手段 shǒuduàn by this means/these means 通过这一/这些方法 a means of communication/expression 一种通讯/表达手段 by means of [something]; 借助于某物 there was/were no means of knowing 没有办法了解 by honest/dishonest/legal/illegal means 通过诚实/不诚实/合法/不合法的手段 by fair means or foul 不择手段地 by all means 一定 can I see it? — by all means! 我能看一看吗？──当然可以！ by no means, not by any means 决不 the end justifies the means 只要目的正当，可以不择手段 a means to an end 达到目的的手段 
B.  noun plural (resources) 财富 cáifù (income) 收入 shōurù a family of moderate or modest means 中等收入的家庭 they have private or independent means 他们有财产性收入 to have the means to do [something] 有做某事的财力 to live beyond one's means 入不敷出 to live within or according to one's means 量入为出 a man/woman of means 富有的男人/女人 
means 
mēnz

▶pl. noun
1 [usually treated as singular] (often means of something or means to do something) an action or system by which a result is brought about; a method: these pledges are a means to avoid prosecution 
resolving disputes by peaceful means.
2 money; financial resources: a woman of modest but independent means 
prospective students without the means to attend Cornell. 
• resources; capability: every country in the world has the means to make ethanol. 
• wealth: a man of means. 
PHRASES
beyond (or within) one's means beyond (or within) one's budget or income: the government is living beyond its means. by all means of course; certainly (granting a permission): “May I make a suggestion?” “By all means.” by any means (or by any manner of means) (following a negative) in any way; at all: I'm not poor by any means. by means of with the help or agency of: supplying water to cities by means of aqueducts. by no means (or by no manner of means) not at all; certainly not: the outcome is by no means guaranteed. a means to an end a thing that is not valued or important in itself but is useful in achieving an aim: a computer is merely a means to an end.ORIGIN late Middle English: plural of mean3, the early sense being ‘intermediary.’
