medium 
BrE ˈmiːdɪəm, AmE ˈmidiəm 

A.  adjective 中等的 zhōngděng de ‹size, weight›; 适中的 shìzhōng de ‹shade of colour, temperature›of medium build or height 中等身材的 
B.  noun(plural media or mediums) 
① (means of communication) 媒介 méijiè (agency, means) 途径 tújìng through or via the medium of [something] 通过某种方法 an advertising/a teaching medium 广告媒体/教学手段 a medium for management/job creation 管理的方法/创造就业的手段 a medium of exchange 交换的媒介 
② (art form) 形式 xíngshì ; (art material) 材料 cáiliào 
③ (solvent) 溶剂 róngjì 
④ (mid-point) 中间 zhōngjiān to find or strike a happy medium 找到折中办法 
⑤ Biology 媒质 méizhì Physics 培养基 péiyǎngjī air is a medium for sound 空气是传播声音的媒质 
⑥ (plural mediums) (spiritualist) 灵媒 língméi 
medium 
ˈmēdēəm

▶noun (plural media 
-dēə
or mediums)
1 an agency or means of doing something: using the latest technology as a medium for job creation 
their primitive valuables acted as a medium of exchange. 
• a means by which something is communicated or expressed: here the Welsh language is the medium of instruction.
2 the intervening substance through which impressions are conveyed to the senses or a force acts on objects at a distance: radio communication needs no physical medium between the two stations 
the medium between the cylinders is a vacuum. 
• the substance in which an organism lives or is cultured: grow bacteria in a nutrient-rich medium.
3 a particular form of storage for digitized information, such as magnetic tape or discs: moving or copying backed-up data through a hierarchy of different mediums.
4 a liquid (e.g., oil or water) with which pigments are mixed to make paint. 
• the material or form used by an artist, composer, or writer: oil paint is the most popular medium for glazing.
5 (plural mediums) a person claiming to be in contact with the spirits of the dead and to communicate between the dead and the living.
6 the middle quality or state between two extremes; a reasonable balance: you have to strike a happy medium between looking like royalty and looking like a housewife. 
▶adjective about halfway between two extremes of size or another quality; average: John is six feet tall, of medium build 
medium-length hair. 
• (of cooked meat) halfway between rare and well-done: I wanted my burger to be medium. DERIVATIVES mediumism 
-ˌmizəm 
noun medium ( sense
5 of the noun) . mediumistic 
ˌmēdēəˈmistik 
adjective medium ( sense
5 of the noun) . mediumship 
-ˌSHip 
noun medium ( sense
5 of the noun) ORIGIN late 16th century (originally denoting something intermediate in nature or degree): from Latin, literally ‘middle,’ neuter of medius .
