meet 
BrE miːt, AmE mit 

A.  transitive verb(past tense, past participle met) 
① (encounter) (by chance) 遇见 yùjiàn (by arrangement) 和…会面 hé… huìmiàn Sport 与…比赛 yǔ… bǐsài Military 与…交战 yǔ… jiāozhàn meet me on the corner in an hour 一小时后和我在街角见面 a terrible scene met their eyes as they entered the room 他们进屋时看到了一幅可怕的景象 to meet [somebody] halfway 和某人妥协 East meets West in this fascinating city 东西方文化在这座迷人的城市里交汇 
② (experience, encounter) 经历 jīnglì ‹difficulty, disaster›to meet one's death/fate 死去/送命 to meet one's Waterloo 遭到惨败 
③ (make the acquaintance of) 与…相识 yǔ… xiāngshí pleased to meet you! 很高兴认识你！ nice to meet you 认识你真高兴 ［用于相见时］nice to have met you 能认识你很高兴 ［用于告别时］she took him to meet her parents 她带他去见父母 Jay, meet Pete AmE 杰伊，这是皮特 to meet one's Maker 见上帝 
④ (greet, await) 接 jiē ‹person, means of transport›she met her guests at the door 她在门口迎接客人 I'll be there to meet you off BrE or at AmE the bus 我会到汽车站去接你 a courtesy bus meets all incoming flights 所有进港航班的乘客都有免费班车来接 
⑤ (come into contact with) 与…相碰 yǔ… xiāngpèng ‹hand, vehicle›the track meets the road by a derelict cottage 小径与公路交接之处有一间破旧的小屋 they met an oncoming car head-on 他们与一辆汽车迎头相撞 his eyes/lips met hers 他和她的目光/两唇相接 to meet [somebody's] eye or gaze 直视某人 more than meets the eye 并不像看到的那么简单 
⑥ (fulfil) 满足 mǎnzú ‹demand, need, order›; 满足…的需求 mǎnzú… de xūqiú ‹person›; 达到 dádào ‹goal, wish, criterion›; 应对 yìngduì ‹challenge›to meet the case BrE 符合要求 
⑦ (pay) 支付 zhīfù ‹cost, bill›
⑧ Busn (match) 和…意见一致 hé… yìjiàn yīzhì ‹person, company›; 和…一致 hé… yīzhì ‹offer›the product is fine, but can we meet him on price? 产品很不错，但是我们能接受他开出的价格吗？ 
B.  intransitive verb(past tense, past participle met) 
① (come together) (from opposite directions) «people, vehicles» 相遇 xiāngyù (by arrangement) 见面 jiànmiàn Sport «teams, opponents» 比赛 bǐsài Military «armies, enemies» 交战 jiāozhàn 
② (assemble) «committee, parliament» 开会 kāihuì ; «individuals, group» 集合 jíhé 
③ (make acquaintance) 相识 xiāngshí I've a feeling we have met somewhere before 我觉得我们以前在什么地方见过 
④ (come into contact) «lines, roads» 相汇 xiānghuì ; «vehicles» 相撞 xiāngzhuàng ; «eyes» 相遇 xiāngyù ; «belt» 扣上 kòu shang their hands/lips met 他们拉了手/接了吻 this skirt/these trousers won't meet (round the middle)! 这条裙子/裤子系不上（腰）！ to meet head on 迎头相撞 to make (both) ends meet (live within one's means) 量入为出 (make just enough money to live on) 勉强维持生计 
C.  noun 
① Sport 运动会 yùndònghuì a track/track-and-field meet 田赛/田径运动会 a swim or swimming meet 游泳比赛 
② BrE (hunt) [打猎前猎人和猎犬的] 集合 jíhé PHRASAL VERBS meet up intransitive verb 
① (get together) 见面 jiànmiàn to meet up with [somebody]; 与某人见面 
② (join, intersect) «roads» 交汇 jiāohuì to meet up with [something]; 与…交汇 ‹road›meet with transitive verb 
① [meet with somebody] (have meeting with) 和…会晤 hé… huìwù ‹person, delegation›
② [meet with something] (encounter) 遭遇 zāoyù ‹opposition, criticism, obstacle, difficulty›; 受到 shòudào ‹praise›she met with much suspicion at first 起初她受到了很大怀疑 his ideas/comments met with no response 他的想法/评论没有得到回应 his speech was met with cries of outrage 他的讲话招来了愤怒的喊声 to meet with success/failure 获得成功/遭到失败 
meet
1 
mēt

▶verb (past and past participle met 
met
) [with object]
1 come into the presence or company of (someone) by chance or arrangement: a week later I met him in the street 
[no object] : we met for lunch 
they arranged to meet up that afternoon. 
• make the acquaintance of (someone) for the first time: she took Paul to meet her parents 
[no object] : we met at an office party. 
• [no object] (of a group of people) assemble for a particular purpose: the committee meets once a week. 
• [no object] (meet with) have a meeting with (someone): he met with the president on September 16. 
• go to a place and wait there for (a person or their means of transport) to arrive: I offered to meet their train. 
• play or oppose in a contest: in the final match, the 
U. 
S.  will meet Brazil 
[no object] : the Twins and Mariners will not meet again until September. 
• touch; join: Harry's lips met hers 
[no object] : the curtains failed to meet in the middle 
figurative : our eyes met across the table. 
• encounter or be faced with (a particular fate, situation, attitude, or reaction): he met his death in 1946 
[no object] : we met with a slight setback. 
• (meet something with) have (a particular reaction) to: the announcement was met with widespread protests. 
• [no object] (meet with) receive (a particular reaction): I'm sorry if it doesn't meet with your approval.
2 fulfill or satisfy (a need, requirement, or condition): this policy is doing nothing to meet the needs of women 
they failed to meet the noon deadline. 
• pay (a financial claim or obligation): all your household expenses will still have to be met. 
▶noun an organized event at which a number of races or other sporting contests are held: a swim meet. 
PHRASES
meet someone's eye (or eyes) be visible: the sight that met his eyes was truly amazing.meet someone's eye (or eyes or gaze) look directly at someone: for a moment, he refused to meet her eyes.meet someone halfway make a compromise with someone; concede some points in order to gain others: I am prepared to meet him halfway by paying an additional $25,000. meet one's Maker see maker. meet one's match see match1. there's more to someone/something than meets the eye a person or situation is more complex or interesting than they appear.ORIGIN Old English mētan ‘come upon, come across,’ of Germanic origin; related to Dutch moeten,‘meet,’also to moot .
