melt 
BrE mɛlt, AmE mɛlt 

A.  intransitive verb 
① (thaw) 融化 rónghuà 
② (soften, become liquefied) «food» 变软 biàn ruǎn I'm melting! figurative 我要热死了！ butter wouldn't melt in [somebody's] mouth figurative 某人装出天真无邪的样子 
③ figurative (become tender) «person» 变得温柔 biàn de wēnróu ; «heart» 变软 biàn ruǎn 
④ figurative (blend, merge) 融合 rónghé to melt into the crowd/darkness 融入人群/黑暗之中 to melt into [somebody's] arms 投入某人的怀抱中 red melts into orange 红色渐渐变成橙色 
B.  transitive verb 
① (cause to thaw) 使融化 shǐ rónghuà 
② (soften, liquefy) 使变软 shǐ biàn ruǎn 
③ figurative (make more amenable, loving) 软化 ruǎnhuà to melt [somebody's] heart 使某人的心变软 
C.  noun 
① (thaw) 融化 rónghuà 
② (sandwich) 奶酪三明治 nǎilào sānmíngzhì ; (hamburger) 奶酪汉堡包 nǎilào hànbǎobāo PHRASAL VERBS melt away intransitive verb 
① literal «snow, ice» 逐渐融化 zhújiàn rónghuà ; «fog, mist» 逐渐消散 zhújiàn xiāosàn 
② figurative «anger, confidence» 逐渐消失 zhújiàn xiāoshī ; «crowd» 逐渐散去 zhújiàn sànqù melt down transitive verb[melt down something], [melt something down] 将…熔化 jiāng… rónghuà 
melt 
melt

▶verb
1 make or become liquefied by heat: [no object] : place under the broiler until the cheese has melted 
[with object] : the hot metal melted the wax 
the icebergs were melting away 
(as adjective melted) : asparagus with melted butter. 
• [with object] (melt something down) melt something, especially a metal article, so that the material it is made of can be used again: beautiful objects are being melted down and sold for scrap. 
• dissolve in liquid: add a cup of sugar and boil until the sugar melts.
2 make or become more tender or loving: [no object] : she was so beautiful that I melted 
[with object] : Richard gave her a smile that melted her heart.
3 [no object] leave or disappear unobtrusively: the compromise was accepted and the opposition melted away 
the figure melted into thin air. 
• (melt into) change or merge imperceptibly into (another form or state): the cheers melted into gasps of admiration. 
▶noun an act of melting: the precipitation falls as snow and is released during the spring melt. 
• metal or other material in a melted condition. 
• an amount melted at any one time. 
• [with modifier] North American a sandwich, hamburger, or other dish containing or topped with melted cheese: a tuna melt. 
PHRASES
melt in the (or your) mouth (of food) be deliciously light or tender and need little or no chewing: my shortbread melts in the mouth 
[as adjective] : melt-in-your-mouth chicken livers.PHRASAL VERBS melt down
1 collapse or break down disastrously: many expected him to melt down at the first sign of trouble.
2 (of a nuclear reactor) undergo a catastrophic failure as a result of the fuel overheating: if the pumps that cool the reactor core become disabled the core could begin to overheat, and the reactor could melt down.DERIVATIVES meltable adjective. melter 
ˈmeltər 
noun. meltingly adverbORIGIN Old English meltan, mieltan, of Germanic origin; related to Old Norse melta ‘to malt, digest,’ from an Indo-European root shared by Greek meldein ‘to melt,’ Latin mollis ‘soft,’ also by malt .
