memory 
BrE ˈmɛm(ə)ri, AmE ˈmɛm(ə)ri 
noun 
① Uncountable(faculty) 记忆力 jìyìlì to have a good/bad memory 记性好/差 to lose one's memory 丧失记忆力 to have an excellent memory for names/faces 善于记名字/长相 from memory 凭记忆 to jog or refresh [somebody's] memory; 唤起某人的记忆 if (my) memory serves me right 如果我没记错的话 to have a lapse or loss of memory 记错 to slip or escape [somebody's] memory; 某人一时记不起来了 to the best of my memory 就我的记忆所及 to have a memory like a sieve colloquial 记性很差 
② Countable(recollection) 回忆 huíyì to evoke or awaken a memory 唤起回忆 to stir up/blot out a memory 勾起/抹去回忆 to take a trip down memory lane 回忆往事 
③ Uncountable(period of time) 记忆范围 jìyì fànwéi in or within living memory 在现今人的记忆中 
④ Uncountable(posthumous fame) [对死者的] 怀念 huáiniàn their memory lives on 他们的荣耀永存 to keep [somebody's] memory alive or green 永远怀念某人 
⑤ Uncountable(commemoration) 纪念 jìniàn in (loving) memory of [somebody]; （深情地）纪念某人 to the memory of [somebody]/[something]; 作为对某人/某事的纪念 of blessed memory; 已故的 
⑥ UncountableComputing 内存 nèicún 
memory 
ˈmem(ə)rē

▶noun (plural memories)
1 the faculty by which the mind stores and remembers information: I've a great memory for faces 
my grandmother is losing her memory 
the brain regions responsible for memory. 
• the mind regarded as a store of things remembered: he searched his memory frantically for an answer.
2 something remembered from the past; a recollection: one of my earliest memories is of sitting on his knee 
the mind can bury all memory of traumatic abuse. 
• the remembering or recollection of a dead person, especially one who was popular or respected: clubs devoted to the memory of Sherlock Holmes. 
• the length of time over which people continue to remember a person or event: the worst slump in recent memory.
3 the part of a computer in which data or program instructions can be stored for retrieval. 
• capacity for storing information on a computer: the module provides 16Mb of memory. 
PHRASES
from memory without reading or referring to notes: each child was required to recite a verse from memory. in memory of intended to remind people of, especially to honor a dead person. take a trip (or walk) down memory lane deliberately recall pleasant or sentimental memories.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French memorie, from Latin memoria, from memor ‘mindful, remembering.’
