mercy 
BrE ˈməːsi, AmE ˈmərsi 
noun 
① Uncountable(clemency) 仁慈 réncí to show mercy to or towards [somebody]; 对某人表示怜悯 to have mercy on [somebody]; 宽待某人 to beg for mercy; 乞求怜悯 in one's mercy 出于恻隐之心 for mercy's sake! colloquial dated 看在上帝的份上！ 
② Uncountable and countable(power to show mercy) 宽容力 kuānrónglì to be at the mercy of [somebody]/[something]; 任凭某人/某事摆布 to leave [somebody] to the mercy or mercies of [somebody] 听任某人受某人的摆布 to throw oneself on [somebody's] mercy; 指望得到某人的宽恕 
③ Countable(fortunate event) 幸运的事 xìngyùn de shì (relief) 解脱 jiětuō to be thankful or grateful for small mercies 庆幸不利情况略有改善 
mercy 
ˈmərsē

▶noun (plural mercies) compassion or forgiveness shown toward someone whom it is within one's power to punish or harm: the boy was screaming and begging for mercy 
the mercies of God. 
• an event to be grateful for, especially because its occurrence prevents something unpleasant or provides relief from suffering: his death was in a way a mercy. 
• [as modifier] (especially of a journey or mission) performed out of a desire to relieve suffering; motivated by compassion: mercy missions to refugees caught up in the fighting. 
▶exclam. archaic used in expressions of surprise or fear: “Mercy me!” uttered Mrs. Garfield. 
PHRASES
at the mercy of completely in the power or under the control of: consumers were at the mercy of every rogue in the marketplace. be thankful (or grateful) for small mercies be relieved that an unpleasant situation is alleviated by minor advantages. have mercy on (or upon) show compassion or forgiveness to: may the Lord have mercy on her soul.leave someone/something to the mercy of expose someone or something to a situation of probable danger or harm: the forest is left to the mercy of the loggers. throw oneself on someone's mercy intentionally place oneself in a situation in which one must rely on someone else to be compassionate or lenient towards one.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French merci ‘pity’ or ‘thanks,’ from Latin merces, merced- ‘reward,’ in Christian Latin ‘pity, favor, heavenly reward.’
