middle 
BrE ˈmɪd(ə)l, AmE ˈmɪdl 

A.  noun 
① (centre) 中间 zhōngjiān in the middle of the room/front page 在屋子的中间/在头版的正中 the middle of a city/region; 城市/地区的中心 the middle of May 5月中旬 in the middle of the night 在半夜时分 in the middle of the nineteenth century 在19世纪中叶 not cooked in the middle 没有熟透 in the middle of the class 位居班级的中游 to be caught in the middle of [something]; 被卡在某物中间 figurative 被卷入某事中 bèi juǎnrù mǒu shì zhōng to be in the middle of [something]/doing [something]; 正忙于某事/做某事 to be in the middle of a crisis 正处于危机中 in the middle of nowhere colloquial 在偏远的地方 to split [something] down the middle 从中间切开 ‹object› figurative 平分 píngfēn ‹bill, sum of money› 分担 fēndān ‹work›to split the party down the middle «issue, policy» 使政党分裂为两派 to knock [somebody] into the middle of next week colloquial 把某人打得不省人事 
② colloquial (waist) 腰部 yāobù to grab [somebody] round the middle 拦腰抱住某人 we were up to our middles in water 我们站在齐腰深的水中 
B.  adjectiveattributive 
① (central) 中间的 zhōngjiān de ‹part, road›to stare into middle space 凝视半空 middle and eastern Europe 中东欧 to be in one's middle fifties 在55岁左右 a middle child 排行居中的孩子 a middle way between two extremes 折中的办法 to steer or take a middle course 取中庸之道 
② (average) 中等的 zhōngděng de ‹price, size, quality›
middle 
ˈmidl

▶adjective [attributive]
1 at an equal distance from the extremities of something; central: the early and middle part of life 
middle and eastern Europe. 
• (of a member of a group, series, or sequence) so placed as to have the same number of members on each side: the woman was in her middle forties. 
• intermediate in rank, quality, or ability: there is a dearth of talent at the middle level. 
• (of a language) of the period between the old and modern forms: Middle High German.
2 Grammar denoting a voice of verbs in some languages, such as Greek, that expresses reciprocal or reflexive action. 
• denoting a transitive or intransitive verb in English with a passive sense, e.g., cuts in this meat cuts well. 
▶noun
1 [usually in singular] the point or position at an equal distance from the sides, edges, or ends of something: she stood alone in the middle of the street. 
• the point at or around the center of a process or activity, period of time, etc.: we were married in the middle of December. 
• informal a person's waist or waist and stomach: he had a towel around his middle.
2 Grammar the form or voice of a verb expressing reflexive or reciprocal action, or a passive sense for a transitive or intransitive verb.
3 short for middle term. 
PHRASES
down the middle divided or dividing something equally into two parts. in the middle of engaged in or in the process of doing something. 
• involved in something, typically something unpleasant or dangerous: he was caught in the middle of the emotional triangle. the middle of nowhere see nowhere. steer (or take) a middle course adopt a policy that avoids extremes.ORIGIN Old English middel; related to Dutch middel and German Mittel, also to mid1 .
