mill 
BrE mɪl, AmE mɪl 

A.  noun 
① (for corn, grain) 磨坊 mòfáng to go through the mill figurative 饱经辛酸 to put [somebody] through the mill figurative 使某人经受磨难 
② (factory) 制造厂 zhìzàochǎng a mill town 多作坊的小镇 
③ (kitchen appliance) 碾磨机 niǎnmójī 
④ (laborious process or routine) 烦琐程序 fánsuǒ chéngxù to go through the mill of … 经过…的烦琐程序 run of the mill 日常活动 
B.  transitive verb 
① (grind, crush) 磨 mó ‹flour, coffee›
② (process, produce) 制造 zhìzào ‹steel, textiles›
③ (in coin manufacturing) 将…轧出凸缘 jiāng… yàchū tū yuán ‹coin›a milled edge 轧出的凸缘 
④ (cut, shape) 铣削 xǐxiāo ‹screw, nut, wheel›PHRASAL VERB mill around, mill about intransitive verb «animals, flock» 兜圈子 dōu quānzi ; «people, crowd» 不耐烦地走动 bù nàifán de zǒudòng 
mill
1 
mil

▶noun
1 a building equipped with machinery for grinding grain into flour. 
• a piece of machinery that grinds grain into flour. 
• a domestic device for grinding a solid substance to powder or pulp: a coffee mill. 
• a building fitted with machinery for a manufacturing process: a steel mill 
[as modifier] : a mill town. 
• a piece of manufacturing machinery. 
• US a place that processes things or people in a mechanical way: a correspondence school that was just a diploma mill.
2 informal an engine.
3 informal, dated a boxing match or a fistfight. 
▶verb
1 [with object] grind or crush (something) in a mill: hard wheats are easily milled into white flour 
(as adjective, with submodifier milled) : freshly milled black pepper. 
• cut or shape (metal) with a rotating tool: (as adjective milling) : lathes and milling machines. 
• (usually as adjective milled) produce regular ribbed markings on the edge of (a coin) as a protection against illegal clipping.
2 [no object] (mill about/around) (of people or animals) move around in a confused mass: people milled about the room, shaking hands 
(as adjective milling) : the milling crowds of guests.
3 [with object] thicken (wool or another animal fiber) by fulling it. 
PHRASES
go (or put someone) through the mill undergo (or cause someone to undergo) an unpleasant experience.DERIVATIVES millable adjectiveORIGIN Old English mylen, based on late Latin molinum, from Latin mola ‘grindstone, mill,’ from molere ‘to grind.’
