minor 
BrE ˈmʌɪnə, AmE ˈmaɪnər 

A.  adjective 
① (small) 较小的 jiào xiǎo de ‹detail, difference, problem›; 较少的 jiào shǎo de ‹concern, interest, expenses›minor royalty 皇室中的小人物 
② (lesser) 次要的 cìyào de ‹position, role, part›a minor author 不太重要的作家 to be of minor importance 不太重要 
③ (not serious) 轻微的 qīngwēi de ‹burns, fracture, injury›
④ Music 小音阶的 xiǎoyīnjiē de ‹scale›; 小调的 xiǎodiào de ‹key›in a minor key 采用小调 
B.  noun 
① (under-age person) 未成年人 wèichéngniánrén 
② AmE (subsidiary subject in university) 辅修科目 fǔxiū kēmù 
C.  intransitive verb AmE (study a subsidiary subject) 辅修 fǔxiū to minor in …; 辅修… 
minor 
ˈmīnər

▶adjective
1 lesser in importance, seriousness, or significance: minor alterations.
2 Music (of a scale) having intervals of a semitone between the second and third degrees, and (usually) the fifth and sixth, and the seventh and eighth. Contrasted with major. 
• (of an interval) characteristic of a minor scale and less by a semitone than the equivalent major interval. Compare with diminished. 
• [usually postpositive] (of a key or mode) based on a minor scale, tending to produce a sad or pensive effect: Concerto in A minor.
3 Logic (of a term) occurring as the subject of the conclusion of a categorical syllogism. 
• (of a premise) containing the minor term in a categorical syllogism. 
▶noun
1 a person under the age of full legal responsibility.
2 Music a minor key, interval, or scale. 
• (Minor) Bell-ringing a system of change-ringing using six bells.
3 (the minors) North American the minor leagues in a particular professional sport, especially baseball: he's been pitching in the minors for six years.
4 North American a college student's subsidiary subject or area of concentration: a minor in American Indian studies.
5 Logic a minor term or premise.
6 Bridge short for minor suit. 
▶verb [no object] (minor in) North American study or qualify in as a subsidiary subject at college or university. 
PHRASES
in a minor key (especially of a literary work) understated.ORIGIN Middle English: from Latin, ‘smaller, less’; related to minuere ‘lessen.’ The term originally denoted a Franciscan friar, suggested by the Latin name Fratres Minores (‘Lesser Brethren’), chosen by St. Francis for the order.
