miss
1 
BrE mɪs, AmE mɪs 
A. transitive verb 
① (fail to hit) 未击中 wèi jīzhòng ‹target›(fail to receive) 未接住 wèi jiēzhù ‹cross, ball›to miss a penalty 罚失点球 the ball missed the goal 球没有进网 you missed me by miles 你扔得离我太远了 he missed the rope and fell 他没抓住绳子，结果摔了下去 
② (avoid, escape) 避开 bìkāi ‹object, bad conditions›to just miss the other car/having an accident 差点儿撞上另一辆车/出事故 to miss death by inches 险些丧命 
③ (fail to catch, take, attend) 错过 cuòguò ‹bus, train, person, offer, meeting›is Lee here? — you just missed him 李在这里吗？──他刚走 to miss one's cue 未听到出场提示 to miss an appointment 未能履约 to miss the second act 未看到第二幕演出 to miss the boat or bus figurative colloquial 错失良机 the chance is too good to miss 机会太好了，不可错过 you don't know what you're missing! colloquial 你不知道你错过了什么！ to miss one's vocation often ironic 入错行 to miss one's footing 失足踏空 it's an experience I wouldn't have missed for anything 那种经历我是说什么都不会错过的 
④ (fail to see) 未看见 wèi kànjian ‹landmark›(fail to hear) 未听见 wèi tīngjian (fail to understand) 未听懂 wèi tīngdǒng you can't miss it 你不会看不见的 he doesn't miss a trick colloquial 他十分机敏 sorry I missed that, can you repeat it? 对不起，我没听见，你能再说一遍吗？ to miss the joke 没听懂笑话 
⑤ (fail to do) 未做到 wèi zuòdào to miss doing [something]; 未能做某事 to miss getting an A by
2 marks 差两分没得到A 
⑥ (skip) 未出席 wèi chūxí ‹class, lecture›; 遗漏 yílòu ‹line, detail›to miss the middle paragraph 跳过中间的那个段落 I missed lunch 我没吃午饭 he never misses my birthday 他从来都记得我的生日 she missed her pill 她忘了服用避孕药 
⑦ (notice absence of) 发觉遗失 fājué yíshī ‹object, money›; 发觉…不在身边 fājué… bùzài shēnbiān ‹person›I didn't miss my purse till I got back to the hotel 我回到宾馆才发现钱包丢了 
⑧ (regret absence of) 想念 xiǎngniàn ‹place, activity›to miss [somebody]/[something] (very badly or much) （非常）想念某人/某物 keep it, I shan't miss it 你留着吧，我不需要它了 to miss doing [something]; 惦念做某事 I don't miss staying up late! 我才不想熬夜呢！ 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (fail to hit target) «player, blow, bullet» 没打中 méi dǎzhòng he had an open goal, but he missed 他面对空门却没射进 you can't miss literal 你不会打不中的 figurative 你肯定能成功 nǐ kěndìng néng chénggōng 
② (fail to do sth.) 不做 bù zuò I always hear from her at New Year; she never misses 我每个新年都会收到她的来信，她一次不落 
③ Auto «engine, vehicle» 不点火 bù diǎnhuǒ 
C.  noun 
① Sport 击不中 jībuzhòng he scored ten hits and two misses 他十次击中，两次未中 a miss is as good as a mile proverb (negative) 错误再小也是错 (positive) 死里逃生总是生 
② BrE colloquial to give [something] a miss (not visit, try, use, etc.) 避开某事 bìkāi mǒu shì to give Rome a miss 不去罗马 bù qù Luómǎ I'll give the soup a miss 我不喝汤了 wǒ bù hē tāng le 
③ (musical flop) 销量很差的唱片 xiāoliàng hěn chà de chàngpiàn ; (cinematic flop) 票房很差的电影 piàofáng hěn chà de diànyǐng PHRASAL VERB miss out A. transitive verb[miss something/somebody out, miss out something/somebody] BrE 
① (accidentally omit) 遗漏 yílòu ‹detail, person›to miss out the comma 漏掉逗号 to miss [something]/[somebody] out from [something]; 把某物/某人从某物中漏掉 
② (deliberately omit) 略去 lüèqù ‹section, point›; 不考虑 bù kǎolǜ ‹person›to miss out the middle verse 跳过中间的那行诗 
B.  intransitive verb colloquial 错过机会 cuòguò jīhuì if you don't go, you'll miss out 如果你不去，就会错过机会 to miss out on [something]; 错失 ‹meal, experience›to miss out on a deal (not join) 错失一笔交易 (not benefit from) 未获收益 
miss
1 
▶verb
1 the shot missed her by inches: fail to hit, be/go wide of, fall short of. ANTONYMS hit.
2 Mandy missed the ball: fail to catch, drop, fumble, bobble, fluff, flub, mishandle, screw up. ANTONYMS catch.
3 I've missed my bus: be too late for, fail to catch/get. ANTONYMS catch.
4 I missed what you said: fail to hear, mishear.
5 you can't miss the station: fail to see/notice, overlook. ANTONYMS see, notice.
6 she never missed a class: fail to attend, be absent from, play truant from, cut, skip. ANTONYMS attend.
7 don't miss this exciting opportunity! let slip, fail to take advantage of, let go, let pass, pass up.
8 I left early to miss rush hour: avoid, beat, evade, escape, dodge, sidestep, elude, circumvent, steer clear of, find a way around, bypass.
9 she missed him when he was away: pine for, yearn for, ache for, long for, long to see.
▶noun one hit and three misses: failure, omission, slip, blunder, error, mistake.
