mistake 
BrE mɪˈsteɪk, AmE məˈsteɪk 
A. noun (misjudgement, error in action or calculation or of fact) 错误 cuòwù (misunderstanding) 误解 wùjiě it is a mistake to do [something]; 做某事是个错误 by mistake 错误地 I left the door open by mistake 我不小心忘了关门 to make a mistake/the same mistake again 犯错误/又犯同样的错误 we all make mistakes 谁都会犯错误的 to make a mistake about [something]/[somebody] 弄错某事/看错某人 to make a mistake about the weather 报错天气 to make a mistake in doing [something] 做某事犯下错误 to make a mistake in adding up the total 把总数加错 to make the mistake of doing [something] 错误地做某事 to make a mistake over [something] 把某事物弄错 to learn by or from one's mistakes 从所犯错误中汲取教训 the fourth child was a mistake 第4个孩子是意外怀孕所生 that cake was a mistake; I feel ill 那个蛋糕真不该吃，我觉得很难受 the figure/date/answer was a mistake 数字/日期/答案不正确 my mistake 我的错 make no mistake (about it) colloquial （这点）别搞错 …, and no mistake! …毫无疑问！ 
B.  transitive verb(past tense mistook, past participle mistaken) 
① (confuse) 误认 wù rèn ‹person, identity›; 弄错 nòng cuò ‹name, address, fact›you can't mistake it 你不会弄错的 I mistook her for Susan 我误以为她是苏珊 it's impossible to mistake her style 她的风格不可能和他人混淆 there's no mistaking [something]/[somebody] 某物/某人不会被认错 that dog's got rabies, there's no mistaking it 那条狗明显患有狂犬病 there's no mistaking who/what/why/that … 谁/什么/为什么/…不会被弄错 
② (misinterpret) 误解 wùjiě ‹person, meaning, mood›to mistake A for B; 把A误解为B to mistake [somebody's] silence for consent 把某人的沉默错当成赞同 
mistake 
▶noun I assumed it had been a mistake: error, fault, inaccuracy, omission, slip, blunder, miscalculation, misunderstanding, oversight, misinterpretation, gaffe, faux pas, solecism; slip of the tongue, eggcorn; informal slip-up, boo-boo, blooper, boner, goof, flub.
▶verb
1 did I mistake your meaning? misunderstand, misinterpret, get wrong, misconstrue, misread.
2 children often mistake vitamin pills for candies: confuse with, mix up with, take for, misinterpret as.
PHRASES
be mistaken I'm afraid you are mistaken—I've never been here before: be wrong, be in error, be under a misapprehension, be misinformed, be misguided; informal be barking up the wrong tree. make a mistake he admits he's made a mistake: go wrong, err, make an error, blunder, miscalculate; informal slip up, make a boo-boo, drop the ball, goof (up). CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD mistake, blooper, blunder, error, faux pas, goof, slip It would be a mistake to argue with your boss the day before he or she evaluates your performance, but to forget an important step in an assigned task would be an error. Although these nouns are used interchangeably in many contexts, a mistake is usually caused by poor judgment or a disregard of rules or principles (it was a mistake not to tell the truth at the outset), while an error implies an unintentional deviation from standards of accuracy or right conduct (a mathematical error). A blunder is a careless, stupid, or blatant mistake involving behavior or judgment; it suggests awkwardness or ignorance on the part of the person who makes it (his blunder that ruined the evening). A slip is a minor and usually accidental mistake that is the result of haste or carelessness (her slip of the tongue spoiled the surprise), while a faux pas (which means 'false step' in French) is an embarrassing breach of etiquette (it was a faux pas to have meat at the table when so many of the guests were vegetarians). Goofs and bloopers are humorous mistakes. A blooper is usually a mix-up in speech, while to goof is to make a careless error that is honestly admitted (she shrugged her shoulders and said, “I goofed!”).These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
