money 
BrE ˈmʌni, AmE ˈməni 

A.  nounUncountable
① (notes, coins) 钱 qián a lot of or big money 一大笔钱 to be short of money 缺钱 to spend money 花钱 to lose/make money 赔/赚钱 to make money hand over fist colloquial 挣大钱 is there (any) money in it? 这个生意能赚钱吗？ to cost money 价钱不菲 to put money into [something]; 投资于某生意 to put money on [something]; 把钱押在某事物上 figurative 对某事物信心十足 duì mǒu shìwù xìnxīn shízú the smart money is on X 知情者都看好X for my money colloquial 在我看来 it is money well spent 这钱花得值 to get one's money's worth 钱花得值 it's a bargain, for the money 价钱倒是很便宜 satisfaction guaranteed or your money back 包您满意，否则退款 to throw or send good money after bad 继续花钱打水漂 money goes or runs through his hands like water colloquial 他花钱如流水 money burns a hole in her pocket colloquial 她一有钱就花光 to have money to burn colloquial 有花不完的钱 your money or your life! 要钱还是要命！ money doesn't grow on trees colloquial 钱不是树上长的 figurative 钱来之不易 qián lái zhī bù yì to put one's money where one's mouth is colloquial 兑现说过的话 to give [somebody] a (good) run for his/her money 让某人觉得钱花得值 figurative 使某人激烈竞争 shǐ mǒu rén jīliè jìngzhēng to get or have a (good) run for one's money 钱花得值 figurative 激烈竞争 jīliè jìngzhēng it's money for jam or old rope BrE colloquial 这钱赚得太容易了 it's money from home AmE 这是轻而易举之事 time is money 时间就是金钱 before noun 钱的 qián de ‹problems, matters›
② (currency) 货币 huòbì Chinese/English money 中国/英国货币 
③ (salary) 工资 gōngzī to earn good money 挣高薪 
④ (wealth) 财产 cáichǎn to have money 富有 to be made of money colloquial 很有钱 to inherit or come into money 继承财产 money isn't everything 金钱不是一切 money talks 金钱万能 not for love nor money 决不 (the love of) money is the root of all evil （贪图）金钱是万恶之首 
B.  moneys noun plural formal 款项 kuǎnxiàng moneys paid into an account 入账金额 
money 
ˈmənē

▶noun a current medium of exchange in the form of coins and banknotes; coins and banknotes collectively: I counted the money before putting it in my wallet 
he borrowed money to modernize the store. 
• (moneys or monies) formal sums of money: a statement of all moneys paid into and out of the account. 
• the assets, property, and resources owned by someone or something; wealth: the college is very short of money. 
• financial gain: the main aim of a commercial organization is to make money. 
• payment for work; wages: she accepted the job at the public school since the money was better. 
• a wealthy person or group: her aunt had married money. 
PHRASES
be in the money informal have or win a lot of money. be money in the bank be a guaranteed success, especially in the sports or entertainment industry: Roy was money in the bank come playoff time 
The film that should prove to be money in the bank. for my money in my opinion or judgment: for my money, they're one of the best bands around. (the love of) money is the root of all evil proverb greed gives rise to selfish or wicked actions. money talks proverb wealth gives power and influence to those who possess it. one's money's worth good value for one's money. on the money North American accurate; correct: every criticism she made was right on the money. put money (or put one's money) on
1 place a bet on.
2 used to express one's confidence in the truth or success of something: she won't have him back—I'd put money on it. put one's money where one's mouth is informal take action to support one's statements or opinions. see the color of someone's money receive some proof that someone has enough money to pay for something. throw one's money around spend one's money extravagantly or carelessly. throw money at something try to solve a problem by recklessly spending money on it, without due consideration of what is required.DERIVATIVES moneyless 
ˈmənēləs 
adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: from Old French moneie, from Latin moneta ‘mint, money,’ originally a title of the goddess Juno, in whose temple in Rome money was minted.
