monitor 
BrE ˈmɒnɪtə, AmE ˈmɑnədər 

A.  noun 
① (TV screen) 电视监视屏 diànshì jiānshìpíng ; (computer screen) 显示器 xiǎnshìqì 
② Medicine 监测器 jiāncèqì 
③ (measuring device) 监视器 jiānshìqì 
④ School [尤指小学的] 班长 bānzhǎng the homework/blackboard monitor 课代表/擦黑板值日生 
⑤ (listener) 监听员 jiāntīngyuán 
⑥ (observer) 观察员 guāncháyuán 
B.  transitive verb 
① (measure, observe) 观察 guānchá ‹speed, process, progress›; 监测 jiāncè ‹radioactivity, weather, air quality›; 监视 jiānshì ‹employee, situation›to monitor [something]/[somebody] for [something]; 为某事物监督某人/某事 the factory's output is monitored for defective items 工厂的出厂产品进行了次品检查 
② Medicine 监测 jiāncè ‹heartbeat, pulse, breathing, temperature›; 观察 guānchá ‹patient›to monitor [somebody] for heart problems/neurological changes 密切注意某人的心脏病/神经病变 
③ (listen in on) 监听 jiāntīng ‹radio stations, telephone calls›to monitor [something] for [something]; 为了某事对某物进行监听 
monitor 
ˈmänədər

▶noun
1 an instrument or device used for observing, checking, or keeping a continuous record of a process or quantity: a heart monitor. 
• a person operating a monitor. 
• a person who observes a process or activity to check that it is carried out fairly or correctly, especially in an official capacity: the independent judicial monitor. 
• a person who listens to and reports on foreign radio broadcasts and signals. 
• US a raised section of roof running down the center of a railroad car, building, etc., providing light or ventilation; a clerestory.
2 a student with disciplinary or other special duties during school hours: show the hall monitor your pass.
3 a television receiver used in a studio to select or verify the picture being broadcast from a particular camera. 
• a screen that displays an image generated by a computer. 
• a loudspeaker, especially one used by performers on stage to hear themselves or in the studio to hear what has been recorded.
4 (also monitor lizard) a large tropical Old World lizard with a long neck, narrow head, forked tongue, strong claws, and a short body. Monitors were formerly believed to give warning of crocodiles. [Family Varanidae and genus Varanus: many species. See also Komodo dragon .]
5 historical a shallow-draft armored warship mounting one or two heavy guns for bombardment. 
▶verb [with object] observe and check the progress or quality of (something) over a period of time; keep under systematic review: equipment was installed to monitor air quality. 
• maintain regular surveillance over: it was easy for the enemy to monitor his movements. 
• listen to and report on (a foreign radio broadcast or a telephone conversation). 
• check or regulate the technical quality of (a radio transmission or television signal). DERIVATIVES monitorial 
ˌmänəˈtôrēəl 
adjective. monitorship 
-ˌSHip 
nounORIGIN early 16th century ( sense
2 of the noun): from Latin, from monit- ‘warned,’ from the verb monere. Sense
1 of the noun dates from the 1930s.
