moon 
BrE muːn, AmE mun 

A.  noun 
① (satellite of the earth) 月球 yuèqiú there is no moon tonight 今晚没有月亮 by the light of the moon 凭借月光 to be over the moon (about [something]/at doing [something]) especially BrE colloquial （因某事物/做某事）非常高兴 many moons ago literary or humorous 很久以前 
② (satellite of any planet) 卫星 wèixīng the fourth moon of Saturn 土卫四 
B.  intransitive verb 
① BrE (mope, idle) 懒散 lǎnsǎn 
② (daydream) 出神地想 chūshén de xiǎng to moon over [somebody]/[something]; 痴痴地思念某人/想某事 
③ colloquial (display buttocks) 露臀 lù tún to moon at [somebody]; 冲某人露臀 PHRASAL VERB moon about, moon around intransitive verb colloquial 虚度时光 xūdù shíguāng 
moon 
mo͞on

▶noun (the moon or the Moon) the natural satellite of the earth, visible (chiefly at night) by reflected light from the sun.phases of the moon 
• a natural satellite of any planet. 
• literary or humorous a month: many moons had passed since he brought a prospective investor home. 
• (the moon) anything that one could desire: you must know he'd give any of us the moon. The earth's moon orbits the earth in a period of 29.5 days, going through a series of phases from new moon to full moon and back again during that time. Its average distance from the earth is some 239,000 miles (384,000 km) and it is 2,160 miles (3,476 km) in diameter. The bright and dark features that outline the face of “the man in the moon” are highland and lowland regions, the high regions being heavily pockmarked by craters due to the impact of meteorites. The moon has no atmosphere, and the same side is always presented to the earth. 
▶verb
1 [no object] behave or move in a listless and aimless manner: lying in bed eating candy, mooning around. 
• act in a dreamily infatuated manner: Timothy's mooning over her like a schoolboy.
2 [with object] informal expose one's buttocks to (someone) in order to insult or amuse them: Dan had whipped around, bent over, and mooned the crowd. 
PHRASES
many moons ago informal a long time ago. over the moon informal extremely happy; delighted. [from the cow jumped over the moon, a line from a nursery rhyme.]DERIVATIVES moonless 
ˈmo͞onləs 
adjective. moonlike 
-ˌlīk 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English mōna, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch maan and German Mond, also to month, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin mensis and Greek mēn ‘month,’ and also Latin metiri ‘to measure’ (the moon being used to measure time).
