moral 
BrE ˈmɒr(ə)l, AmE ˈmɔrəl 

A.  adjective 
① (ethical) 道德的 dàodé de on moral grounds 基于道德原因 to take the moral high ground 在道义上占优势 human beings are moral animals 人类是有道德感的动物 
② (virtuous) 品行端正的 pǐnxíng duānzhèng de to lead a moral life 为人正派 
③ (morally instructive) 有教益的 yǒu jiàoyì de ‹tale›
B.  noun (practical lesson) 寓意 yùyì to draw a moral from [something]; 从某事物中得到教益 to point a moral 指明寓意 
C.  morals noun plural (standards and principles of behaviour) 道德 dàodé public morals 公德 to have no morals 不道德 a woman of loose morals 荡妇 
moral 
ˈmôrəl

▶adjective
1 concerned with the principles of right and wrong behavior and the goodness or badness of human character: the moral dimensions of medical intervention 
a moral judgment. 
• concerned with or derived from the code of interpersonal behavior that is considered right or acceptable in a particular society: an individual's ambitions may get out of step with the general moral code 
the moral obligation of society to do something about the inner city's problems. 
• [attributive] examining the nature of ethics and the foundations of good and bad character and conduct: moral philosophers.
2 holding or manifesting high principles for proper conduct: he prides himself on being a highly moral and ethical person. 
▶noun
1 a lesson, especially one concerning what is right or prudent, that can be derived from a story, a piece of information, or an experience: the moral of this story was that one must see the beauty in what one has.
2 (morals) a person's standards of behavior or beliefs concerning what is and is not acceptable for them to do: the corruption of public morals 
they believe addicts have no morals and cannot be trusted. ORIGIN late Middle English: from Latin moralis, from mos, mor- ‘custom,’ (plural) mores ‘morals.’ As a noun the word was first used to translate Latin Moralia, the title of St. Gregory the Great's moral exposition of the Book of Job, and was subsequently applied to the works of various classical writers.
