more 
BrE mɔː, AmE mɔr 
A. determiner 
① (greater quantity or number of) 更多的 gèng duō de more … than …; 比…更多的… we have more eggs than milk 我们的鸡蛋比牛奶多 more cars than before or than there used to be 比以前多的汽车 some/many more books 稍多/多得多的书籍 three times more money 三倍多的钱 (the) more fool you! 你真笨！ 
② (additional) 另外的 lìngwài de I need a few more books/days 我还需要几本书/几天 have you any more questions/problems? 你们还有什么问题吗？ there's no more time 没有时间了 one more word and I'll … 你敢再说一个字，我就… more and more work 越来越多的工作 
B.  adverb 
① (comparative) 更加 gèngjiā more … than …; 比…更加… more and more difficult/beautiful 越来越难/美 he looked more dead than alive 他看上去半死不活 the more intelligent (child) of the two 两个（孩子）中较聪明的一个 the more developed countries 更加发达的国家 he is (all) the more determined because … 他因为…而更坚定了 you couldn't be more mistaken 你完全错了 it's more or less finished 这件事差不多做完了 more than ever 比以往任何时候更 
② (to greater extent) 更多地 gèng duō de more and more …; 越来越… he talks more than I do 他说得比我多 you must eat/rest more 你必须多吃/多休息 I couldn't agree more 我完全赞成 he can't sing any more than I can, he can no more sing than I can 他并非比我更会唱歌 he's no more a duke than I am 他和我都不是公爵 to be more than a little surprised 非常吃惊 I admired his courage the more 我越发敬佩他的勇气了 the more … the …; 越…，越… the more you rest, the quicker you'll get better 你休息越多，康复得就越快 more than 非常 a more than generous offer 极其慷慨的出价 it will more than cover the cost 这完全可以支付这笔费用 he can't understand it, and no more can I 他不明白这件事，我也不明白 in York, and even more so in Oxford 在纽约是这样，在牛津更是如此 no more so than usual/the others 并非不同凡响 
③ (rather) 更确切些 gèng quèqiè xiē he's more a babysitter than a teacher 他更像个保姆，而不是老师 more often than not 时常 more or less (nearly) 几乎 (about, roughly) 大约 he's more or less an invalid 他基本上是个病人 that's more or less what he said 这差不多就是他说的话 
④ (again, further, longer) 再 zài once/twice more 再一次/两次 we shall see him no more 我们再也见不到他了 I don't travel any more 我不再旅游了 the factories and mines are no more 工厂和矿山都已不复存在 
⑤ colloquial (moreover) 而且 érqiě he was rich, and more, he was handsome 他有钱，而且很英俊 
C.  pronoun 
① (larger amount or number) 更多 gèng duō more of …; 更多的… more of an X than a Y; 更多的是X而不是Y the more … the …; 越…，越… it costs more than I expected 它的价格超出了我的预料 he earns much or far or a lot more than I do 他比我挣的钱多多了 we can't afford more than a short holiday 我们只能负担得起短假 one helping is more than enough 一客就足够了 it proved more of a hindrance than a help 这证明有碍而无助 the more you earn, the more tax you have to pay 收入越多，须缴的税就越多 more means worse 多了反而更糟 we must see more of her 我们必须和她多见面 (the) more's the pity! 真倒霉！ they could hardly do more 他们尽力了 
② (additional amount or number) 额外的量 éwài de liàng more and more; 越来越多 tell me more 再告诉我一些 more remain(s) to be discovered 还有待更多发现 many more are needed 还需要更多 there isn't much more to say 没什么更多的话可说了 have you heard any more from him? 你还收到过他的信吗？ let's say no more about it formal 我们别再谈论这件事了 during our holiday, of which more later, … 在我们度假期间，关于这个问题后面还要谈到更多 more than meets the eye 并非如看到的那样 they have more and more to do 他们有越来越多的事情要做 you're late, and what's more, you're drunk 你迟到了，更过分的是，你还喝醉了 neither/nothing more nor less (than) 简直 he's a thief, neither more nor less 他完全就是一个贼 no/nothing/not much more than … 仅仅是… it's not much more than a formality 这只不过是一种形式 
③ (higher number) 更大的数目 gèng dà de shùmù more or less 大约 more than 多于 she weighs a kilo more than I do 她的体重比我重1公斤 children aged
7 or more 7岁或7岁以上的儿童 more than
5 people/£10/half 5人/10英镑/一半以上 more than once 不止一次地 
more 
▶adjective I could do with some more clothes: additional, further, added, extra, increased, new, other, supplementary. ANTONYMS less, fewer.
▶adverb
1 he was able to concentrate more on his writing: to a greater extent, further, some more, better.
2 he was rich, and more, he was handsome. See moreover. 
▶pronoun we're going to need more: extra, an additional amount, an additional amount, an addition, an increase. ANTONYMS less, fewer.
PHRASES
more or less the jar holds more or less
18 pickles: approximately, roughly, nearly, almost, close to, about, of/on the order of, in the region of.
