most 
BrE məʊst, AmE moʊst 

A.  determiner 
① (majority of, nearly all) 大多数的 dàduōshù de most people/computers 大多数人/电脑 
② (more than all others) 最大量的 zuìdàliàng de she earns (the) most votes/money 她得到了最多的选票/赚钱最多 the area where we have had (the) most success 我们取得了最大成功的领域 for the most part 大部分地 she agreed with my suggestions for the most part 她基本同意我的建议 
B.  pronoun 
① (the maximum) the most; 最大量 zuìdàliàng the most you can expect is … 你所能期待的至多是… what's the most we'll have to pay? 我们必须支付的上限是多少？ he certainly made the most of the story 他把这个故事讲得真是精彩极了 to make the most of oneself 充分展现自己 chōngfèn zhǎnxiàn zìjǐ 
② (the majority) 大多数 dàduōshù most of his friends/the people 他的大多数朋友/大多数人 most of the money/wine 大部分钱/葡萄酒 most of the day 白天的大部分时间 
③ (more than all others) 最多 zuì duō Nick has got (the) most 尼克得到的最多 at (the) most 至多 
C.  adverb 
① (more than all the rest) 最多地 zuì duō de what she wants most (of all) is … 她特别想要的是… those who will benefit/suffer most from … 从…中获益/受苦最多的人 
② (to the greatest extent) 最 zuì the most comfortable hotel in Cairo 开罗最舒适的旅馆 she did it most easily of all 她做这件事最轻松 the most beautifully written prose 写得最优美的散文 
③ (very) 非常 fēicháng most encouraging/annoying 非常鼓舞人心/令人恼火 most certainly/probably 非常肯定/极有可能 
④ AmE colloquial (almost) 几乎 jīhū most everyone 几乎每个人 
most 
mōst

▶det. & pronoun
1 superlative of many, much.
2 greatest in amount or degree: [as determiner] : they've had the most success 
[as pronoun] : they had the most to lose. 
• the majority of; nearly all of: [as determiner] : most oranges are sweeter than these 
[as pronoun] : I spent most of the winter on the coast. 
▶adverb
1 superlative of much.
2 to the greatest extent: the things he most enjoyed 
what she wanted most of all. 
• forming the superlative of adjectives and adverbs, especially those of more than one syllable: the most important event of my life 
sandy plains where fire tends to spread most quickly.
3 extremely; very: it was most kind of you 
that is most probably correct.
4 North American informal almost: most everyone understood. 
PHRASES
at (the) most not more than: the walk took four minutes at the most. be the most informal be the best of all; be the ultimate. for the most part in most cases; usually: the older members, for the most part, shun him. make the most of use to the best advantage: he was eager to make the most of his visit. 
• represent at its best: how to make the most of your features.ORIGIN Old English māst, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch meest and German meist .
