motion 
BrE ˈməʊʃ(ə)n, AmE ˈmoʊʃ(ə)n 
A. noun 
① Uncountable(movement) 运动 yùndòng to be in motion 处于运动中 to set or put [something] in motion; literal 使某物开始运动 figurative 使某事开始运作 shǐ mǒu shì kāishǐ yùnzuò to set the wheels in motion figurative 使一切开始运转 
② Countable(gesture) (of hands) 手势 shǒushì (of head, body) 姿势 zīshì he made a motion to close the door 他做了个关门的手势 to go through the motions (of doing [something]) （做某事）走过场 
③ Countable(proposal) 动议 dòngyì a motion to do [something]; 做某事的动议 to table/second the motion 提出动议/对动议提出附议 to carry or pass/defeat or reject the motion by
10 votes to
8 以10票对8票通过/否决动议 a motion of censure 不信任动议 a Commons motion BrE 下院的提议 
④ Countable BrE formal (emptying of bowels) 排便 páibiàn to have a motion 排便 páibiàn 
⑤ Countable BrE formal (faeces) 粪便 fènbiàn 
B.  intransitive verb 做手势 zuò shǒushì to motion to or for [somebody] (to do [something]); 示意某人（做某事） he motioned for me to come over 他招呼我过去 
C.  transitive verb 向…做手势 xiàng… zuò shǒushì to motion [somebody] in/out; 示意某人进来/出去 
motion 
▶noun
1 the rocking motion of the boat 
a planet's motion around the sun: movement, moving, locomotion, rise and fall, shifting; progress, passage, passing, transit, course, travel, traveling.
2 a motion of the hand: gesture, movement, signal, sign, indication; wave, nod, gesticulation.
3 the motion failed to obtain a majority: proposal, proposition, recommendation, suggestion.
▶verb he motioned her to sit down: gesture, signal, direct, indicate; wave, beckon, nod, gesticulate.
PHRASES
in motion remain seated while the bus is in motion: moving, on the move, going, traveling, running, functioning, operational. set/put in motion they have set in motion a formal review of the law: start, commence, begin, activate, initiate, launch, get underway, get going, get off the ground; trigger off, set off, spark off, generate, cause. 
WORD LINKS
motion kinetic relating to or resulting from motionWord Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.
