mould
1 
BrE məʊld, AmE moʊld
BrE 
A.  noun 
① (shape) (for metal, china, plastic) 模具 mújù Culinary (for pudding, jelly) 模子 múzi 
② figurative (type, style) 类型 lèixíng to fit (into) the mould of [something]; 符合某事物的类型 to be cast in a similar/the same/a different mould 具有类似/相同/不同的性格 to break the mould 打破陈规 
B.  transitive verb 
① (shape) 用模具塑造 yòng mújù sùzào ‹clay, liquid metal, plastic›; 用模具制作出 yòng mújù zhìzuò chū ‹sculpture, model, piece of wax›to mould [something] into [something]; 用模具把某物做成某形状 seats moulded to the shape of the average figure 用模具按中等身材制成的座椅 a head moulded out of or in or from clay 通过模具用泥巴制成的头像 
② figurative (influence) 影响…的形成 yǐngxiǎng… de xíngchéng to mould a child into a mature adult 把孩子塑造成思想成熟的成年人 to mould public opinion 左右舆论 
C.  intransitive verb 紧贴 jǐn tiē the wet clothes moulded to her body 湿衣服贴在她身上 
mold
1 
mōld 
(British mould) 
▶noun
1 a hollow container used to give shape to molten or hot liquid material (such as wax or metal) when it cools and hardens. 
• something made in a mold, especially a gelatin dessert or a mousse: lobster mold with a sauce of carrots and port.
2 [in singular] a distinctive and typical style, form, or character: he planned to conquer the world as a roving reporter in the mold of his hero 
the latest policy document is still stuck in the old mold. 
• archaic the form or shape of something, especially the features or physique of a person or the build of an animal.
3 a frame or template for producing moldings. 
▶verb [with object] form (an object with a particular shape) out of easily manipulated material: a Connecticut inventor molded a catamaran out of polystyrene foam. 
• give a shape to (a malleable substance): take the marzipan and mold it into a cone shape. 
• influence the formation or development of: the professionals who were helping to mold US policy. 
• (often as adjective molded) shape (a column, ceiling, or other part of a building) to a particular design, especially a decorative molding: a corridor with a molded cornice. 
PHRASES
break the mold put an end to a restrictive pattern of events or behavior by doing things in a markedly different way: his work did much to break the mold of the old urban sociology.DERIVATIVES moldable 
ˈmōldəb(ə)l 
adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: apparently from Old French modle, from Latin modulus (see modulus) .
