mount 
BrE maʊnt, AmE maʊnt 
→ Mount Rushmore 
A.  transitive verb 
① (ascend) 登上 dēng shang ‹stairs, hill, stage›; 骑上 qí shang ‹horse, bicycle›to mount the throne 登上王位 to mount the pavement «car» 驶上人行道 
② (fix in place) 把…装框 bǎ… zhuāng kuàng ‹picture›; 镶嵌 xiāngqiàn ‹gem›; 把…固定于载片 bǎ… gùdìng yú zàipiàn ‹specimen›to mount [something] on or on to/in [something]; 把某物镶嵌到某物上/内 
③ (support) 安装 ānzhuāng ‹machine›to mount [something] with [something]; 把某物安装在某物上 
④ figurative (set up, hold) 发起 fāqǐ ‹campaign, challenge, attack›; 举行 jǔxíng ‹exhibition, performance, raid›to mount checkpoints 设立检查站 to mount guard (at or over [somebody]/[something]) 设岗（守卫某人/某物） 
⑤ Zoology 趴到…身上交配 pādào… shēn shang jiāopèi ‹female animal, female bird›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (rise) «blush, blood» 上涌 shàngyǒng a blush/the blood mounted to her cheeks 她的脸颊上浮起一片红晕/血涌上她的脸颊 
② Riding 上马 shàngmǎ 
③ (increase in size) «number, debt, costs» 增加 zēngjiā ; «temperature, prices, unemployment» 上升 shàngshēng to mount to [something]; 增加到某一数目 
④ (increase in intensity) «concern, tension, excitement» 加剧 jiājù ; «interest» 增强 zēngqiáng 
⑤ Zoology «male mammal, male bird» 趴到身上交配 pādào shēn shang jiāopèi 
C.  noun 
① (mountain) 山 shān Mount Etna/Everest 埃特纳山/珠穆朗玛峰 
② (backing) (for picture) 框 kuàng (for gem, coin) 托板 tuōbǎn (for stamp) 护邮袋 hùyóudài (for transparency, specimen) 载片 zàipiàn 
③ (support) (for machine, engine, camera) 底座 dǐzuò (for gun) 炮架 pào jià 
④ (horse) 坐骑 zuòqí PHRASAL VERB mount up intransitive verb «costs, savings, debts» 增加 zēngjiā 
mount
1 
mount

▶verb [with object]
1 climb up (stairs, a hill, or other rising surface): he mounted the steps to the front door. 
• climb or move up onto (a raised surface): the master of ceremonies mounted the platform. 
• get up on (an animal or bicycle) in order to ride it. 
• set (someone) on horseback; provide with a horse: she was mounted on a white horse. 
• (of a male mammal or bird) get on (a female) for the purpose of copulation. 
• [no object] (of the blood or its color) rise into the cheeks: feeling the blush mount in her cheeks, she looked down quickly.
2 organize and initiate (a campaign or other significant course of action): the company had successfully mounted takeover bids. 
• establish; set up: security forces mounted checkpoints at every key road. 
• produce (a play, exhibition, or other artistic event); present for public view or display.
3 [no object] grow larger or more numerous: the costs mount up when you buy a home. 
• (of a feeling) become stronger or more intense: his anxiety mounted as messages were left unanswered.
4 place or fix (an object) in its operating position: fluorescent lights are mounted on the ceiling 
the engine is mounted behind the rear seats. 
• set in or attach to a backing or setting: the photographs will be mounted and framed. 
• fix (an object for viewing) on a microscope slide. 
• Computing make (a disk or disk drive) available for use. 
▶noun
1 a backing or setting on which a photograph, gem, or work of art is set for display. 
• a glass microscope slide for securing a specimen to be viewed. 
• Philately a clear plastic or paper sleeve used to display a postage stamp.
2 a support for a gun, camera, or similar piece of equipment.
3 a horse being ridden or that is available for riding: he hung onto his mount's bridle. 
• an opportunity to ride a horse, especially as a jockey: the jockey's injuries forced him to give up the coveted mount on Cool Ground. 
PHRASES
mount guard keep watch, especially for protection or to prevent escape.DERIVATIVES mountable adjective. mounter 
ˈmoun(t)ər 
nounORIGIN Middle English: from Old French munter, based on Latin mons, mont- ‘mountain.’
