mouth 
A.  /BrE maʊθ, AmE maʊθ
noun 
① Countable(of human, animal) 嘴 zuǐ to open/shut or close one's mouth literal 张/闭嘴 figurative 开口说话/闭嘴 kāikǒu shuōhuà/bìzuǐ with one's mouth (wide) open （大）张着嘴 to keep one's mouth shut (about [something]) colloquial （对某事）守口如瓶 to kiss [somebody] on/hit [somebody] in the mouth 亲某人的嘴/打某人的嘴巴 to have something in one's mouth 嘴里含着东西 to be taken by mouth 口服 nil by mouth 不得口服 my mouth is dry 我口干 to make [somebody's] mouth water «food» 使某人馋得流口水 to have four mouths to feed 有4口人要养活 out of [somebody's] own mouth 某人亲口说的 by word of mouth 口头上 to put words in or into [somebody's] mouth 硬说某人说过某些话 to take the words (right) out of [somebody's] mouth 说出某人（正）想说的话 to have a big mouth colloquial (talk too much) 喋喋不休 (reveal secret) 口风不紧 to shoot one's mouth off colloquial (boastfully) 胡吹 (indiscreetly) 随便乱说 to put one's foot in one's mouth 说话不得体 to watch one's mouth colloquial 说话当心 I'll wash your mouth out with soap! colloquial 再说脏话，我就用肥皂给你洗洗嘴！ his heart was in his mouth 他的心提到了嗓子眼 to be down in the mouth 闷闷不乐 out of the mouths of babes proverb 童言有道 → lion 
①, → taste 
A. 
① 
② Countable(opening of bag, jar, cave, tunnel, volcano) 口 kǒu (of harbour, river) 出口 chūkǒu 
③ Uncountablecolloquial (talk) 空话 kōnghuà he's all mouth and no action 他只说不干 
④ Uncountablecolloquial (impudence) 无礼的话 wúlǐ de huà watch your mouth! 说话注意点！ 
B.  /BrE maʊð, AmE maʊð
transitive verb 
① (say silently) 只嘴动而不出声地说 zhǐ zuǐ dòng ér bù chū shēng de shuō ‹word, answer›to mouth [something] to oneself 不出声地自言自语某事 
② pejorative (say insincerely, recite) 言不由衷地说 yán bù yóu zhōng de shuō ‹promises, apologies›; 机械地说 jīxiè de shuō ‹prayers›PHRASAL VERB mouth off intransitive verbcolloquial pejorative 
① (boast) 高谈阔论 gāo tán kuò lùn to mouth off about [something]; 大谈特谈某事物 to mouth off at [somebody] 大声责骂某人 
② AmE (be indiscreet) 随便乱讲 suíbiàn luàn jiǎng to mouth off about [something]; 乱讲某事物 
mouth 
▶noun 
mouTH 
(plural mouths 
mouT͟Hz, mouTHs
)
1 the opening in the lower part of the human face, surrounded by the lips, through which food is taken in and from which speech and other sounds are emitted. 
• the corresponding opening through which an animal takes in food (at the front of the head in vertebrates and many other creatures), or the cavity behind this. 
• [usually with adjective] a horse's readiness to feel and obey the pressure of the bit in its mouth: the horse had a hard mouth. 
• the character or quality of a wine as judged by its feel or flavor in the mouth (rather than its aroma). 
• informal talkativeness; impudence: you've got more mouth on you than anyone I've ever known.
2 an opening or entrance to a structure that is hollow, concave, or almost completely enclosed: standing before the mouth of a cave. 
• the opening for filling or emptying something used as a container: the mouth of the bottle. 
• the muzzle of a gun. 
• the opening or entrance to a harbor or bay: walking to the mouth of the bay to absorb the view. 
• the place where a river enters the sea. 
▶verb 
mouT͟H 
[with object]
1 say (something dull or unoriginal), especially in a pompous or affected way: this clergyman mouths platitudes in breathy, soothing tones. 
• utter very clearly and distinctly: she would carefully mouth the right pronunciation. 
• move the lips as if saying (something) or in a grimace: she mouthed a silent farewell 
[with direct speech] : “Come on,” he mouthed.
2 take in or touch with the mouth: puppies may mouth each other's collars during play. 
• train the mouth of (a horse) so that it responds to a bit. 
PHRASES
a mouth to feed a person, typically a child, who has to be looked after and fed: how can they afford another mouth to feed? be all mouth informal tend to talk boastfully without any intention of acting on one's words.keep one's mouth shut informal not say anything, especially not reveal a secret: would he keep his mouth shut under interrogation? open one's mouth informal say something: sorry, I'll never open my mouth about you again. watch one's mouth informal be careful about what one says.PHRASAL VERBS mouth off informal talk in an unpleasantly loud and boastful or opinionated way: he was mouthing off about society in general. 
• (mouth off at) loudly criticize or abuse.DERIVATIVES mouther 
ˈmouT͟Hər 
noun. mouthless 
ˈmouTHləs 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English mūth, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch mond and German Mund, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin mentum ‘chin.’
