movement 
BrE ˈmuːvm(ə)nt, AmE ˈmuvmənt 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(of person, animal, body part) 动作 dòngzuò (of nomad, herd, army, vehicle, traffic) 移动 yídòng (of wheel, machine) 转动 zhuàndòng (of current, fluid, gas) 流动 liúdòng (of tree, branch) 摇动 yáodòng a graceful/sudden movement 优雅的/突然的动作 a dance movement 舞蹈动作 an upward/a downward movement 向上/向下的移动 the movement of labour/goods 劳动力/商品的流动 troop movements 部队的调动 
② Uncountable and countablefigurative (trend) 动向 dòngxiàng (change) 变动 biàndòng an upward/a downward movement in prices 价格的上浮/下降 
③ CountablePolitics, Sociology, Art, Religion 运动 yùndòng the labour/trade union movement 劳工/工会运动 the woman's (liberation) movement 妇女（解放）运动 a mass movement 群众运动 
④ UncountableTransport 运输 yùnshū the movement of goods by rail/road 铁路/公路货运 
⑤ Uncountable(activity) 动静 dòngjing there seems to be some movement upstairs 楼上好像有点动静 
⑥ CountableMusic 乐章 yuèzhāng to be in three movements 由3个乐章组成 
⑦ Countable(of clock, watch) 机芯 jīxīn 
⑧ Countable(of bowels) 大便 dàbiàn to have a movement 大便 dàbiàn 
B.  movements noun plural (activities and whereabouts) 活动 huódòng to study [somebody's] movements 研究某人的行踪 
movement 
ˈmo͞ovmənt

▶noun
1 an act of changing physical location or position or of having this changed: a slight movement of the upper body 
the principle of the free movement of goods between member states. 
• an arrival or departure of an aircraft. 
• (also bowel movement) an act of defecation. 
• (movements) the activities and whereabouts of someone, especially during a particular period of time: your movements and telephone conversations are recorded. 
• the general activity or bustle of people or things in a particular place: the scene was almost devoid of movement. 
• the progressive development of a poem or story: the novel shows minimal concern for narrative movement. 
• a change or development in something: movements in the underlying financial markets.
2 [often with modifier] a group of people working together to advance their shared political, social, or artistic ideas: the labor movement. 
• [usually in singular] a campaign undertaken by a group of people working together: a movement to declare war on poverty.
3 Music a principal division of a longer musical work, self-sufficient in terms of key, tempo, and structure: the slow movement of his violin concerto.
4 the moving parts of a mechanism, especially a clock or watch. ORIGIN late Middle English: via Old French from medieval Latin movimentum, from Latin movere ‘to move.’
