murder 
BrE ˈməːdə, AmE ˈmərdər 

A.  noun 
① UncountableLaw (crime) 谋杀罪 móushāzuì mass/serial murder 大屠杀/连环谋杀 to get away with murder colloquial humorous 逍遥法外 to cry or scream blue BrE or bloody AmE murder colloquial 没命似地叫喊 murder will out proverb 恶事终必败露 
② CountableLaw (act of killing) 谋杀 móushā the murder weapon 凶器 
③ Uncountablefigurative colloquial (hell) 遭罪的经历 zāozuì de jīnglì to be murder; 难得要命 it's murder doing [something]/trying to do [something] 做某事/尝试做某事简直要命 museums can be murder on the feet 参观博物馆会让脚累得要命 did you have fun? — no, it was murder! 你玩得高兴吗？──哪有，简直是遭罪！ the winds were murder 风刮得非常厉害 
B.  transitive verb 
① Law 谋杀 móushā to murder [somebody] with [something]; 用某物谋杀某人 
② colloquial (castigate or punish) 对…不客气 duì… bù kèqì ‹person›I'll murder those kids! 我要宰了那帮孩子！ 
③ colloquial (ruin) 糟蹋 zāota ‹music, language›
④ Sport colloquial (defeat) 彻底击败 chèdǐ jībài ‹opponent›
⑤ especially BrE colloquial (devour) 猛吃 měng chī ‹food›; 猛喝 měng hē ‹drink›
C.  intransitive verb 杀人 shā rén 
murder 
ˈmərdər

▶noun the unlawful premeditated killing of one human being by another: the stabbing murder of an off-Broadway producer 
he was put on trial for attempted murder. 
• informal a very difficult or unpleasant task or experience: my first job at the steel mill was murder. 
▶verb [with object] kill (someone) unlawfully and with premeditation: somebody tried to murder Joe. 
• informal punish severely or be very angry with: my father will murder me if I'm home late. 
• informal conclusively defeat (an opponent) in a game or sport. 
• spoil by lack of skill or knowledge: the only thing he had murdered was the English language. 
PHRASES
get away with murder informal succeed in doing whatever one chooses without being punished or suffering any disadvantage. murder one (or two) North American informal first-degree (or second-degree) murder.murder will out murder cannot remain undetected. scream (or yell) bloody (or British blue) murder informal scream loudly due to pain or fright; make an extravagant and noisy protest: she had tripped and was screaming bloody murder.ORIGIN Old English morthor, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch moord and German Mord, from an Indo-European root shared by Sanskrit mará ‘death’ and Latin mors; reinforced in Middle English by Old French murdre .
