mystery 
BrE ˈmɪst(ə)ri, AmE ˈmɪst(ə)ri 
noun 
① Countable(puzzle) 神秘事物 shénmì shìwù an unsolved mystery 未解之谜 to solve or clear up or unravel a mystery 解开谜团 to remain a mystery to [somebody] 对某人来说仍是个谜 it's a mystery to me why … 我怎么样也搞不懂为什么… to make a great mystery of [something]; 对某事物故弄玄虚 
② Countable(unknown person) 神秘人物 shénmì rénwù (unknown thing) 陌生的事物 mòshēng de shìwù before noun a mystery guest/visitor/woman 神秘嘉宾/访客/女子 
③ Uncountable(mysteriousness) 神秘 shénmì mystery surrounds [something] 神秘气氛围绕着某事物 to be shrouded or cloaked in mystery 笼罩在神秘气氛中 to be full of mystery 充满神秘感 there is no mystery about her success or about why she is successful 她的成功不是什么谜 
④ Countable(book) 疑案作品 yí'àn zuòpǐn (film) 疑案电影 yí'àn diànyǐng before noun a mystery thriller 惊险疑案小说 
⑤ CountableReligion 奥秘 àomì 
mystery
1 
ˈmist(ə)rē

▶noun (plural mysteries)
1 something that is difficult or impossible to understand or explain: the mysteries of outer space 
hoping that the inquest would solve the mystery. 
• the condition or quality of being secret, strange, or difficult to explain: much of her past is shrouded in mystery. 
• a person or thing whose identity or nature is puzzling or unknown: “He's a bit of a mystery,” said Nina 
[as modifier] : a mystery guest.
2 a novel, play, or movie dealing with a puzzling crime, especially a murder.
3 (mysteries) the secret rites of Greek and Roman pagan religion, or of any ancient or tribal religion, to which only initiates are admitted. 
• the practices, skills, or lore peculiar to a particular trade or activity and regarded as baffling to those without specialized knowledge: the mysteries of analytical psychology. 
• the Christian Eucharist.
4 chiefly Christian Theology a religious belief based on divine revelation, especially one regarded as beyond human understanding: the mystery of Christ. 
• an incident in the life of Jesus or of a saint as a focus of devotion in the Roman Catholic Church, especially each of those commemorated during recitation of successive decades of the rosary. ORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘mystic presence, hidden religious symbolism’): from Old French mistere or Latin mysterium, from Greek mustērion; related to mystic .
