nail 
BrE neɪl, AmE neɪl 

A.  noun 
① (metal spike) 钉子 dīngzi to hit the nail on the head figurative 一针见血 cash on the nail colloquial 现金 to pay on the nail colloquial 立即支付 the first/last nail in [somebody's]/[something]'s coffin figurative 给某人/某事物以开始/最后的致命一击 
② Anatomy 指甲 zhǐjia to bite/paint one's nails 咬/涂指甲 
B.  transitive verb 
① (fasten) 钉住 dìngzhù to nail [something] (to or on to or on [something]); 把某物钉（到某物）上 we nailed planks over the doors 我们在门上钉了木板 to nail one's colours to the mast figurative 公开表态 
② figurative (fix) 固定 gùdìng ‹person›; 集中 jízhōng ‹attention›to nail one's eye(s) on [something] 死死盯住某物 to be nailed to the ground or to the spot 在原地动弹不得 
③ figurative (expose) 揭穿 jiēchuān ‹myth, rumour›
④ colloquial (catch, arrest) 抓住 zhuāzhù ‹debtor, criminal, culprit›
⑤ colloquial (bring down) 打中 dǎzhòng ‹prey›
⑥ Sport colloquial 扣杀 kòushā ‹ball, smash, drive›PHRASAL VERBS nail down transitive verb 
① [nail something down, nail down something] (fasten securely) 钉牢 dìngláo ; figurative (define precisely) 确定 quèdìng ‹origin, agreement›
② to nail [somebody] down (to [something]) (make sb. say precisely) 让某人（对某事）明确表态 ràng mǒu rén(duì mǒu shì)míngquè biǎotài nail on transitive verb 
① [nail something on, nail on something] (fasten with nails) 钉上 dìng shang 
② to nail [something] on [somebody] figurative colloquial 指控某人犯有 zhǐkòng mǒu rén fàn yǒu ‹murder, arson›nail up transitive verb[nail something up, nail up something] 
① (fasten) 钉住 dìngzhù ‹poster, sign›to be nailed up (somewhere) figurative colloquial 被限制（在某处） 
② (make secure) 钉死 dìngsǐ ‹door, window›
nail 
nāl

▶noun
1 a small metal spike with a broadened flat head, driven typically into wood with a hammer to join things together or to serve as a peg or hook.nails
2 a horny covering on the upper surface of the tip of the finger and toe in humans and other primates. 
• an animal's claw. 
• a hard growth on the upper mandible of some soft-billed birds.
3 historical a medieval unit of measurement. 
• a measure of length for cloth, equal to 21/4 inches. 
• a measure of wool, beef, or other commodity, roughly equal to
7 or
8 pounds. 
▶verb [with object]
1 fasten to a surface or to something else with a nail or nails: nail the edge framing to the wall 
the teacher was nailing up the lists.
2 informal expose (someone) as deceitful or criminal; catch or arrest: have you nailed the killer? 
• expose (a lie or other instance of deception).
3 American Football, informal tackle the quarterback or ballcarrier, especially at or behind the line of scrimmage. 
• Baseball (of a fielder) put (a runner) out by throwing to a base: he dropped a perfect throw home that should have nailed Joe by yards. 
• chiefly North American (of a player) defeat or outwit (an opponent): Navratilova tried to nail her on the backhand side. 
• (of a player) secure (especially a victory) conclusively: there's no doubt I had chances to nail it in the last set.
4 vulgar slang, chiefly US (of a man) have sexual intercourse with (someone). 
PHRASES
fight tooth and nail see tooth. hard as nails (of a person) very tough; completely callous or unfeeling. a nail in the coffin an action or event regarded as likely to have a detrimental or destructive effect on a situation, enterprise, or person: this was going to put the final nail in the coffin of his career. on the nail British (of payment) without delay.PHRASAL VERBS nail someone down elicit a firm promise or commitment from someone: I can't nail her down to a specific date. nail something down
1 fasten something securely with nails.
2 identify something precisely: something seems unexpected—I can't nail it down, but it makes me uneasy.
3 secure something, especially an agreement: the company has finally nailed down the agreement with its distributors.DERIVATIVES nailless adjectiveORIGIN Old English nægel (noun), næglan (verb), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch nagel and German Nagel, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin unguis and Greek onux .
