naked 
BrE ˈneɪkɪd, AmE ˈneɪkɪd 
adjective 
① (bare) 裸体的 luǒtǐ de ‹person›; 裸露的 luǒlù de ‹body›to go naked 赤身裸体 naked to the waist 赤膊的 
② (exposed) 无遮盖的 wúzhēgài de ‹object›a naked sword 出鞘的剑 naked fists 赤手空拳 a naked flame 明火 a naked light 无罩灯 
③ attributive (blatant) 赤裸裸的 chìluǒluǒ de ‹aggression, facts, truth›; 不加掩饰的 bù jiā yǎnshì de ‹contempt, attempt›
④ attributive (unaided) 无保护的 wúbǎohù de the naked eye 肉眼 to fight with naked strength 徒手搏斗 
naked 
▶adjective
1 naked sunbathers: nude, bare, in the nude, stark naked, having nothing on, stripped, unclothed, undressed; informal without a stitch on, in one's birthday suit, in the buff, in the raw, in the altogether, buck-naked, butt-naked, mother-naked. ANTONYMS clothed, dressed.
2 a naked flame: unprotected, uncovered, exposed, unguarded. ANTONYMS covered.
3 the naked branches of the trees: bare, barren, denuded, stripped, uncovered.
4 I felt naked and exposed: vulnerable, helpless, weak, powerless, defenseless, exposed, open to attack.
5 the naked truth 
naked hostility: undisguised, plain, unadorned, unvarnished, unqualified, stark, bald; overt, obvious, open, patent, evident, apparent, manifest, unmistakable, blatant.CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD naked, bald, bare, barren, nude Someone who isn't wearing any clothes is naked; this adjective is usually associated with revealing a part or all of the body (her naked shoulder; a naked man ran from the building). A naked person who appears in a painting or photograph is said to be nude, a euphemistic but more socially acceptable term referring to the unclothed human body (in fact, the piece of art itself is called "a nude"). Bare can describe the branches of a tree as well as human limbs; it implies the absence of the conventional or appropriate covering (a bare wooden floor; bare legs; four bare walls). Bald also suggests a lack of covering, but it refers particularly to a lack of natural covering, especially hair (a bald head). Barren implies a lack of vegetation, and it also connotes destitution and fruitlessness (a barren wasteland devoid of life). A bald artist might paint a nude woman whose bare arms are extended against a barren winter landscape.These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
