narrow 
BrE ˈnarəʊ, AmE ˈnɛroʊ 

A.  adjective 
① (in width) 狭窄的 xiázhǎi de to grow or become narrow «road, river» 变窄 biàn zhǎi «eyes» 眯起 mīqǐ he has narrow shoulders or is narrow across the shoulders 他肩很窄 
② (limited in scope) 有限的 yǒuxiàn de ‹range, choice, experience›(precise in meaning) 狭义的 xiáyì de ‹definition, sense›; pejorative (too restricted) 狭隘的 xiá'ài de ‹mind›to lead a narrow existence 过单调的生活 she's very narrow in her views 她的观点非常狭隘 
③ (with only a small margin) 差距小的 chājù xiǎo de ‹result›; 微小的 wēixiǎo de ‹margin›; 微弱的 wēiruò de ‹majority, advantage›to win a narrow victory or a victory by a narrow margin 险胜 to suffer a narrow defeat 惜败 to have a narrow escape 侥幸脱逃 
④ (tight-fitting) 紧身的 jǐnshēn de ‹jacket, fit›
⑤ (barely adequate) 紧缺的 jǐnquē de ‹means, resources›
⑥ Phonet 窄的 zhǎi de ‹vowel›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (become less wide) «road, river» 变窄 biàn zhǎi 
② (become closer or more limited) «range, scope, role, margin» 缩小 suōxiǎo ; «choices, surplus» 减少 jiǎnshǎo the gap between the two parties has narrowed to 5% 两党的差距缩小到5% 
③ (become less open-minded) «outlook, opinions» 变得狭隘 biàn de xiá'ài 
④ (almost close) 眯起 mīqǐ his eyes narrowed to ominous slits 他的双眼邪恶地眯成了缝 
C.  transitive verb 
① (make less wide) 使…变窄 shǐ… biàn zhǎi ‹road, river›to narrow [something] to [something]; 把某物变窄为某物 
② (restrict, limit, make closer) 缩小 suōxiǎo ‹scope, role, margin›; 减少 jiǎnshǎo ‹choice›; 限定 xiàndìng ‹meaning, definition›they narrowed the focus of their investigation to two individuals 他们把调查的重点集中到两个人身上 the police have narrowed the search to these three towns 警方把搜查范围缩小到了这三个镇 the MP's majority has been narrowed to a mere hundred votes 下院议员的多数优势已经缩小到仅100票 
③ (make less open-minded) 使…变得狭隘 shǐ… biàn de xiá'ài ‹mind, outlook›bad experiences have narrowed her trust in other people 不愉快的经历使她不大相信别人了 
④ (cause to close) 眯起 mīqǐ ‹one's eyes›
⑤ (make tighter) 收紧 shōujǐn ‹dress, sleeves›
D.  narrows noun plural (of sea) 海峡 hǎixiá ; (of river) 峡谷 xiágǔ PHRASAL VERB narrow down: 
A.  intransitive verb to narrow down to [something]; «investigation, search» 缩小到某范围 suōxiǎo dào mǒu fànwéi 
B.  transitive verb [narrow something down, narrow down something] 缩小 suōxiǎo ‹investigation, search›; 缩减 suōjiǎn ‹applicants, number of suspects›to narrow down the possibilities to a short list 把可能性缩小到几种 
narrow 
ˈnerō

▶adjective (narrower, narrowest)
1 (especially of something that is considerably longer or higher than it is wide) of small width: he made his way down the narrow road.
2 limited in extent, amount, or scope; restricted: his ability to get good results within narrow constraints of money and manpower. 
• (of a person's attitude or beliefs) limited in range and lacking willingness or ability to appreciate alternative views: companies fail through their narrow view of what contributes to profit. 
• precise or strict in meaning: some of the narrower definitions of democracy. 
• (of a phonetic transcription) showing fine details of accent. 
• Phonetics denoting a vowel pronounced with the root of the tongue drawn back so as to narrow the pharynx.
3 denoting or relating to a contest that is won or lost by only a very small margin: the home team just hung on for a narrow victory. 
▶verb
1 become or make less wide: [no object] : the road narrowed and crossed an old bridge 
[with object] : the embankment was built to narrow the river. 
• almost close (one's eyes) so as to focus on something or someone, or to indicate anger, suspicion, or other emotion: [with object] : she narrowed her eyes at him suspiciously 
[no object] : Jake's eyes had narrowed to pinpoints.
2 become or make more limited or restricted in extent or scope: [no object] : their trade surplus narrowed to $70 million in January 
[with object] : New England had narrowed Denver's lead from
13 points to 4. 
▶noun (narrows) a narrow channel connecting two larger areas of water: a basaltic fang rising from the narrows of the Upper Missouri. PHRASAL VERBS narrow something down reduce the number of possibilities or options of something: the company has narrowed down the candidates for the job to two.DERIVATIVES narrowish adjectiveORIGIN Old English nearu, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch naar ‘dismal, unpleasant’ and German Narbe ‘scar.’ Early senses in English included ‘constricted’ and ‘miserly.’
