native 
BrE ˈneɪtɪv, AmE ˈneɪdɪv 

A.  adjective 
① (natal) 出生的 chūshēng de ‹land, village›his native language/country 他的母语/祖国 a native New Yorker 土生土长的纽约人 a native French speaker 法语是母语的人 
② (indigenous) 原住民的 yuánzhùmín de ‹tribe, custom, language›to go native colloquial humorous 入乡随俗 
③ Zoology, Botany 当地的 dāngdì de ‹flora, fauna›to be native to somewhere 原产于某地 
④ (innate) 天生的 tiānshēng de ‹instincts, abilities, intelligence›
B.  noun 
① (person born in a certain place) 本地人 běndìrén a native of London/Canada 伦敦/加拿大人 
② (indigenous person) 原住民 yuánzhùmín 
③ usually plural (local) 当地人 dāngdìrén 
④ Zoology 土生动物 tǔshēng dòngwù Botany 土生植物 tǔshēng zhíwù to be a native of somewhere 原产于某地 
native 
ˈnādiv

▶noun a person born in a specified place or associated with a place by birth, whether subsequently resident there or not: a native of Montreal 
an eighteen-year-old Brooklyn native. 
• a local inhabitant: New York in the summer was too hot even for the natives. 
• dated or offensive one of the original inhabitants of a country, especially a nonwhite as regarded by European colonists or travelers. 
• an animal or plant indigenous to a place: the marigold is a native of southern Europe. 
▶adjective
1 associated with the country, region, or circumstances of a person's birth: he's a native New Yorker 
her native country. 
• of the indigenous inhabitants of a place: a ceremonial native dance from Fiji.
2 (of a plant or animal) of indigenous origin or growth: these plants are native to North America 
America's native black bear.
3 (of a quality) belonging to a person's character from birth rather than acquired; innate: some last vestige of native wit prompted Guy to say nothing 
a jealousy and rage native to him. 
• Computing designed for or built into a given system, especially denoting the language associated with a given processor, computer, or compiler, and programs written in it.
4 (of a metal or other mineral) found in a pure or uncombined state. 
PHRASES
go native humorous or derogatory (of a person living away from their own country or region) abandon one's own culture, customs, or way of life and adopt those of the country or region one is living in.DERIVATIVES natively adverb. nativeness nounORIGIN late Middle English: from Latin nativus, from nat- ‘born,’ from the verb nasci . usage: In contexts such as a native of Boston or New York in the summer was too hot even for the natives, the noun native is quite acceptable. But when it is used to mean ‘a nonwhite original inhabitant of a country,’ as in this dance is a favorite with the natives, it is more problematic. This meaning has an old-fashioned feel and, because of its associations with a colonial European outlook, it may cause offense.
