nature 
BrE ˈneɪtʃə, AmE ˈneɪtʃər 
noun 
① Uncountable(essential quality) 本质 běnzhì of this/that nature; 这/那一类的 of a serious/personal/professional nature; 性质严重的/个人性质的/职业性质的 to be in the nature of [something] formal 与某物类似 fire is by (its very) nature dangerous 火就（其）本质而言是危险的 it is in the nature of things that … …是理所当然的 it is in the nature of living things to die 生物本质上是要死亡的 
② Countable and uncountable(fundamental character) 本性 běnxìng [somebody's] true nature 某人的本性 to have a vengeful/artistic/good nature 生性爱报复/有艺术细胞/脾气好 by nature; 天生地 strong by name, strong by nature 人如其名一样强壮 it is (not) in his nature to be kind to people 他生性对人（不）和善 to be different/eccentric in nature 性格不同/怪异 [somebody's] better nature 某人的良心 against my better nature, I … 我狠心地… second nature (to [somebody] or for [somebody] to do [something]) （某人的/某人做某事的）第二天性 
③ Uncountable(the natural world) 自然界 zìránjiè (natural processes) 自然 zìrán to teach [somebody] about nature 向某人讲授自然常识 to paint from nature 写生 contrary to or against nature 违背自然的 a law of nature 自然规律 to let nature take its course 顺其自然 a call of nature euphemistic 内急 euphemistic nature versus nurture 先天对后天 a nature lover 热爱大自然的人 
④ Uncountable(simple life) 原始生活 yuánshǐ shēnghuó to get back or go back to nature 返璞归真 to be in a state of nature Philosophy (primitive) 处于原始状态 euphemistic humorous (naked) 赤身裸体 chìshēn luǒtǐ 
nature 
ˈnāCHər

▶noun
1 the phenomena of the physical world collectively, including plants, animals, the landscape, and other features and products of the earth, as opposed to humans or human creations: the breathtaking beauty of nature. 
• the physical force regarded as causing and regulating these phenomena: it is impossible to change the laws of nature. See also Mother Nature.
2 [in singular] the basic or inherent features of something, especially when seen as characteristic of it: helping them to realize the nature of their problems 
there are a lot of other documents of that nature. 
• the innate or essential qualities or character of a person or animal: it's not in her nature to listen to advice 
I'm not violent by nature. See also human nature. 
• inborn or hereditary characteristics as an influence on or determinant of personality. Often contrasted with nurture. 
• [with adjective] archaic a person of a specified character: Emerson was so much more luminous a nature. 
PHRASES
against nature unnatural or immoral. someone's better nature the good side of a person's character; their capacity for tolerance, generosity, or sympathy: Charlotte planned to appeal to his better nature. call of nature used euphemistically to refer to a need to urinate or defecate. from nature (in art) using natural scenes or objects as models: I wanted to paint landscape directly from nature. get (or go) back to nature return to the type of life (regarded as being more in tune with nature) that existed before the development of complex industrial societies. in the nature of similar in type to or having the characteristics of: the promise was in the nature of a check that bounced. in the nature of things
1 inevitable: it is in the nature of things that the majority of music prizes get set up for performers rather than composers.
2 inevitably: in the nature of things, old people spend much more time indoors. in a state of nature
1 in an uncivilized or uncultivated state.
2 totally naked.
3 Christian Theology in a morally unregenerate condition, unredeemed by divine grace. the nature of the beast informal the inherent or essential quality or character of something, which cannot be changed.ORIGIN Middle English (denoting the physical power of a person): from Old French, from Latin natura ‘birth, nature, quality,’ from nat- ‘born,’ from the verb nasci .
