naturally 
BrE ˈnatʃ(ə)rəli, AmE ˈnætʃ(ə)rəli 
adverb 
① (obviously) 当然地 dāngrán de ‹cautious, angry›(normally) 自然地 zìrán de ‹develop, behave, smile›naturally enough, she refused 她当然拒绝了 I naturally assumed that … 我自然而然地以为… to do what comes naturally 顺其自然 just try and act naturally 尽量自然些 
② (innately) 天生地 tiānshēng de ‹conservative, athletic›naturally talented 有天赋的 her hair is naturally curly 她的头发是自然卷 to come naturally to [somebody]; 对某人来说轻而易举 
③ (in nature) 天然地 tiānrán de ‹grow, decompose, present›naturally occurring radioactive isotopes 天然的放射性同位素 
naturally 
▶adverb
1 he's naturally shy: by nature, by character, inherently, innately, congenitally.
2 try to act naturally: normally, in a natural manner/way, unaffectedly, spontaneously, genuinely, unpretentiously; informal natural. ANTONYMS self-consciously.
3 naturally, they wanted everything kept quiet: of course, as might be expected, needless to say; obviously, clearly, it goes without saying. ANTONYMS surprisingly.REFLECTIONS Michael Dirdanaturally Writers generally hope that their sentences smoothly interlock, and that any reader's eyes pass swiftly down the page without effort. To assist in creating this frictionless continuity, we sometimes turn to words like naturally or phrases like of course, in fact, and that said. These usually appear at the start of a sentence, simultaneously announcing new material while subtly or overtly harking back to earlier content. The occasional use of these locutions to promote continuity is fine, but all too often they merely signal slack writing. In themselves such words don't actually carry any meaning; they are simply syntactic grace notes—and employed too often they grow into verbal tics. As much as possible, cast out these fawning connectives and make your thinking the dynamic that sweeps the reader along. Prefer concision to clutter, the meaningful to the vacuous.Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
