negative 
BrE ˈnɛɡətɪv, AmE ˈnɛɡədɪv 

A.  adjective 
① (saying no) 否定的 fǒudìng de ‹statement, reply›to give a negative answer 给予否定的答复 
② (pessimistic, unhelpful, unfavourable) 消极的 xiāojí de ‹response, attitude, criticism›to be negative about [something]; 对某事持消极态度 don't be so negative! 不要太悲观！ 
③ (harmful) 负面的 fùmiàn de ‹feelings, experience, influence›
④ Physics, Electronics 负的 fù de ‹charge, particle, ion›negative terminal/wire 负极端子/负极引线 
⑤ Medicine 阴性的 yīnxìng de ‹result, test›
⑥ Mathematics 负的 fù de ‹number, quantity›
⑦ Photography 负的 fù de ‹photograph, image›
B.  noun 
① (refusal) 否定 fǒudìng to answer or reply in the negative 作出否定回答 
② Linguistics (word) 否定词 fǒudìngcí (grammatical construction) 否定式 fǒudìngshì in the negative 否定的 fǒudìng de 
③ Photography 底片 dǐpiàn 
④ Physics, Electronics 负电 fùdiàn 
⑤ (disadvantage, down side) 负面因素 fùmiàn yīnsù the negatives outweigh the positives 负面因素超过了正面因素 
negative 
ˈneɡədiv

▶adjective
1 consisting in or characterized by the absence rather than the presence of distinguishing features. 
• (of a statement or decision) expressing or implying denial, disagreement, or refusal: that, I take it, was a negative answer. 
• (of the results of a test or experiment) indicating that a certain substance or condition is not present or does not exist: a negative test result. 
• (of a person) not having a specified condition or showing traces of a specified substance in their body: so far all the patients have tested negative for TB 
[in combination] : HPV-negative. 
• US informal denoting a complete lack of something: they were described as having negative vulnerability to water entry. 
• Grammar & Logic (of a word, clause, or proposition) expressing denial, negation, or refutation; stating or asserting that something is not the case. Contrasted with affirmative and interrogative.
2 (of a person, attitude, or situation) not desirable or optimistic: the new tax was having a very negative effect on car sales 
not all the news is negative 
I don't want to be negative, but I don't see how we could do it.
3 (of a quantity) less than zero; to be subtracted from others or from zero. 
• denoting a direction of decrease or reversal: the industry suffered negative growth in 1992.
4 of, containing, producing, or denoting the kind of electric charge carried by electrons.
5 (of a photographic image) showing light and shade or colors reversed from those of the original.
6 Astrology relating to or denoting any of the earth or water signs, considered passive in nature. 
▶noun
1 a word or statement that expresses denial, disagreement, or refusal: she replied in the negative. 
• (often the negative) a bad, unwelcome, or unpleasant quality, characteristic, or aspect of a situation or person: confidence will not be instilled by harping solely on the negative 
the bus trip and the positive media have not had time to turn his significant negatives around. 
• Grammar a word, affix, or phrase expressing negation. 
• Logic another term for negation.
2 a photographic image made on film or specially prepared glass that shows the light and shade or color values reversed from the original, and from which positive prints can be made.
3 a result of a test or experiment indicating that a certain substance is not present or a certain condition does not exist: the percentage of false negatives generated by a cancer test was of great concern.
4 the part of an electric circuit that is at a lower electrical potential than another part designated as having zero electrical potential.
5 a number less than zero. 
▶exclam. no (usually used in a military context): “Any snags, Captain?” “Negative, she's running like clockwork.” 
▶verb [with object]
1 reject; refuse to accept; veto: the bill was negatived by 130 votes to 129. 
• disprove; contradict: the insurer's main arguments were negatived by Lawrence.
2 render ineffective; neutralize: should criminal law allow consent to negative what would otherwise be a crime? DERIVATIVES negativeness 
ˈneɡədivnəs 
nounORIGIN late Middle English: from late Latin negativus, from negare ‘deny’ (see negate) .
