neglect 
BrE nɪˈɡlɛkt, AmE nəˈɡlɛkt 
A. transitive verb 
① (fail to care for) 疏于照管 shū yú zhàoguǎn ‹child, building, health, appearance›to neglect oneself (one's health) 不注意自己的健康 (one's appearance) 不修边幅 
② (ignore) 忽视 hūshì ‹friendship, problem, needs›to neglect one's duty 玩忽职守 to neglect work 旷工 
③ (underestimate) 不重视 bù zhòngshì ‹factor, artist, work›
④ (fail) 遗漏 yílòu to neglect to do [something]; 漏做某事 the police neglected to inform the child's parents 警方忘记通知孩子的父母了 
⑤ (overlook) 不抓住 bù zhuāzhù ‹offer, opportunity›
B.  nounUncountable
① (lack of care) 忽视 hūshì to fall into neglect 被忽视 to be in a state of neglect 处于无人照管的状态 neglect of one's health/appearance 对自己健康的忽视/不修边幅 
② (failure to carry out) 疏忽 shūhu neglect of [something]; 对某事的疏忽 neglect of duty 玩忽职守 
neglect 
▶verb
1 she neglected the children: fail to look after, leave alone, abandon, desert; literary forsake. ANTONYMS cherish, look after.
2 he's neglecting his work: pay no attention to, let slide, not attend to, be remiss about, be lax about, leave undone, shirk. ANTONYMS concentrate on.
3 don't neglect our advice: disregard, ignore, pay no attention to, take no notice of, pay no heed to, overlook; disdain, scorn, spurn. ANTONYMS heed.
4 I neglected to inform her: fail, omit, forget. ANTONYMS remember.
▶noun
1 the place had an air of neglect: disrepair, dilapidation, deterioration, shabbiness, disuse, abandonment; rare desuetude.
2 her doctor was guilty of neglect: negligence, dereliction of duty, carelessness, heedlessness, unconcern, laxity, slackness, irresponsibility; formal delinquency. ANTONYMS care.
3 the neglect of women's concerns: disregard of/for, ignoring of, overlooking of; inattention to, indifference to, heedlessness to. ANTONYMS attention.CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD neglect, disregard, ignore, overlook, slight One of the most common reasons why people fail to arrive at work on time is that they neglect to set their alarm clocks, neglect being a verb that implies a failure to carry out some expected or required action, either intentionally or through carelessness. Some people, of course, choose to disregard their employer's rules pertaining to tardiness, which implies a voluntary, and sometimes deliberate, inattention. Others hear the alarm go off and simply ignore it, which suggests not only a deliberate decision to disregard something but a stubborn refusal to face the facts. No doubt they hope their employers will overlook their frequent late arrivals, which implies a failure to see or to take action, which can be either intentional or due to haste or lack of care (to overlook minor errors). But they also hope no one will slight them for their conduct when it comes to handing out raises and promotions, which means to disregard or neglect in a disdainful way.These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
