neither 
BrE ˈnʌɪðə, ˈniːðə, AmE ˈniðər, ˈnaɪðər 

A.  conjunction 都不 dōu bù neither … nor … 既不…也不… neither tea, coffee, nor milk 既不是茶或咖啡，也不是牛奶 neither Peter nor I was there 彼得和我都不在那里 → here 
A. 
① 
B.  adverb 也不 yě bù I don't like him — neither do I 我不喜欢他──我也不喜欢他 I don't know — me neither colloquial 我不知道──我也不知道 
C.  determiner 两者都不 liǎngzhě dōu bù neither answer is correct 两个答案都不对 in neither case 两种情况都不 
D.  pronoun 两者都不 liǎngzhě dōu bù neither is suitable 两个都不合适 neither of them can drive 他们两个都不会开车 
neither 
ˈnēT͟Hər ˈnīT͟Hər

▶det. & pronoun not the one nor the other of two people or things; not either: [as determiner] : neither side of the brain is dominant over the other 
[as pronoun] : neither of us believes it. 
▶adverb
1 used before the first of two (or occasionally more) alternatives that are being specified (the others being introduced by “nor”) to indicate that they are each untrue or each do not happen: I am neither a liberal nor a conservative.
2 used to introduce a further negative statement: he didn't remember, and neither did 
I.  
PHRASES
neither here nor there see here. ORIGIN Middle English: alteration (by association with either) of Old English nawther, contraction of nāhwæther (from nā ‘no’ + hwæther ‘whether’). usage:
1 The use of neither with another negative, as in I don't like him neither or not much good at reading neither is recorded from the 16th century onward, but is not thought to be good English. This is because it is an example of a double negative, which, though standard in some other languages such as Spanish and found in many dialects of English, is not acceptable in standard English. In the sentences above, either should be used instead. For more information, see usage at double negative.2 When neither is followed by nor, it is important in good English style that the two halves of the structure mirror each other: she saw herself as neither wife nor mother rather than she neither saw herself as wife nor mother. For more details, see usage at either .
