nerve 
BrE nəːv, AmE nərv 

A.  noun 
① CountableAnatomy 神经 shénjīng to touch or hit a (raw) nerve 触及要害 to strain every nerve (to do [something]) 竭尽全力（做某事） nerve fibres 神经纤维 
② Uncountable(courage) 勇气 yǒngqì to have the nerve to do [something]; 有勇气做某事 to keep one's nerve 保持镇定 to lose/regain one's nerve 失去/恢复勇气 to get up enough nerve to do [something]; 鼓足勇气做某事 a test of nerve 对意志力的考验 
③ Uncountablecolloquial (impudence) 厚脸皮 hòuliǎnpí to have the nerve to do [something]; 竟有脸做某事 of all the nerve! 厚颜无耻！ 
B.  nerves noun plural 神经质 shénjīngzhì to suffer from nerves 神经紧张 (to have) an attack or a fit of nerves 神经紧张 to be a bag or bundle of nerves 十分紧张 it's only nerves! 只是过于紧张！ my nerves are on edge 我神经紧张 to calm [somebody's] nerves 使某人镇定 to get on [somebody's] nerves 惹某人心烦 that noise is getting on my nerves colloquial 那噪音使我心绪烦躁 a war or battle of nerves 神经战 nerves of steel 钢铁般的意志 
C.  transitive verb 激励 jīlì to nerve oneself to do [something]/for [something]; 鼓起勇气做某事 
nerve 
nərv

▶noun
1 (in the body) a whitish fiber or bundle of fibers that transmits impulses of sensation to the brain or spinal cord, and impulses from these to the muscles and organs: the optic nerve.
2 (nerves) a person's mental state, in particular the extent to which they are agitated or worried: an amazing journey that tested her nerves to the full. 
• nervousness or anxiety: his first-night nerves soon disappeared.
3 (often one's nerve) a person's steadiness, courage, and sense of purpose when facing a demanding situation: the army's commanders were beginning to lose their nerve 
I got up the nerve to ask Miss Kinnian to have dinner with me. 
• informal impudence or audacity: he had the nerve to insult my cooking 
she's got nerve wearing that short skirt with those legs.
4 Botany a prominent unbranched rib in a leaf, especially in the midrib of the leaf of a moss. 
▶verb (nerve oneself) brace oneself mentally to face a demanding situation: she nerved herself to enter the room. 
PHRASES
a bundle of nerves see bundle. get on someone's nerves informal irritate or annoy someone. have nerves of steel not be easily upset or frightened. strain every nerve make every possible effort. [from the earlier sense of nerve as ‘tendon, sinew.’] touch (or hit or strike) a nerve (or a raw nerve) provoke a reaction by referring to a sensitive topic: there are signs that some comments strike a raw nerve.war of nerves a struggle in which opponents try to wear each other down by psychological means.DERIVATIVES nerved 
nərvd 
adjective [usually in combination] : she was still raw-nerved from reliving the pastORIGIN late Middle English (also in the sense ‘tendon, sinew’): from Latin nervus; related to Greek neuron ‘nerve’ (see neuron) .
