net
1 
BrE nɛt, AmE nɛt 

A.  noun 
① (for fishing etc.) 网 wǎng 
② Sport 球网 qiúwǎng to hit the ball into the net (tennis) 击球落网 to come in to or up to the net (tennis) 靠近球网 to put the ball in or into the back of the net (football) 把球打入网 
③ figurative (trap) 罗网 luówǎng the net was closing in around her 这张罗网正向她罩过来 to be caught in the net 落网 to slip through or escape the net 漏网 
④ figurative (system for selecting) 选拔机制 xuǎnbá jīzhì to slip through or escape the net 被遗漏 to cast the or one's net wide 广泛撒网 
⑤ Telecommunications (network) 通信网 tōngxìnwǎng 
⑥ (hairnet) 发网 fà wǎng 
⑦ (textile) 网眼织物 wǎngyǎn zhīwù a veil of white net 白色网状面纱 
⑧ (Internet) the Net 因特网 Yīntèwǎng to surf the Net 上网 shàngwǎng 
B.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -tt-) 
① (catch with net) 用网捕 yòng wǎng bǔ 
② figurative (acquire through skill) 获得 huòdé ‹prize, trophy, fortune›
③ (gain as profit) 净赚 jìng zhuàn ‹profit, sum of money›; 从…中净赚 cóng… zhōng jìng zhuàn ‹sale, deal›to net [something] from [something]; 从某物中净赚某物 to net [somebody] [something], to net [something] for [somebody]; «venture, deal» 使…净赚某物 
④ (trap) 抓获 zhuāhuò ‹criminal›
⑤ (cover) 用网罩住 yòng wǎng zhàozhù ‹trees, seedlings›
C.  intransitive verb colloquial 进球 jìnqiú 
net
1 
net

▶noun
1 a length of open-meshed material made of twine, cord, rope, or something similar, used typically for catching fish or other animals. 
• a piece of open-meshed material supported by a frame at the end of a handle, used typically for catching fish or other aquatic animals or insects. 
• a length of open-meshed material supported on a frame and forming part of the goal in various games such as soccer and hockey: he turned Wilson's cross into the net. 
• a length of open-meshed material supported on a cord between two posts to divide the playing area in various games such as tennis, badminton, and volleyball. 
• a safety net: he felt like a tightrope-walker without a net.
2 a fine fabric with a very open weave: [as modifier] : net curtains.
3 a system or procedure for catching or entrapping someone; a trap: the search was delayed, allowing the murderers to escape the net. 
• a system or procedure for selecting or recruiting someone: he spread his net far and wide in his search for success.
4 a network, in particular: 
• a communications or broadcasting network: the radio net was brought to life with a mayday. 
• a network of interconnected computers: a computer news net. 
• (the Net) the Internet. 
▶verb (nets, netted, netting) [with object]
1 catch or land (a fish or other animal) with a net. 
• fish with nets in (a river): he has netted the creeks and found them clogged with fish. 
• acquire or obtain as if with a net: customs officials have netted large caches of drugs.
2 (in sports) hit or kick (a ball or puck) into the net; score (a goal): in six years Wright has netted 177 goals 
[no object] : Aldridge netted twice.
3 cover with a net: we fenced off a rabbit-proof area for vegetables and netted the top. DERIVATIVES netful 
ˈnetˌfo͝ol 
noun (plural netfuls) . netlike 
-ˌlīk 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English net, nett, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch net and German Netz .
