new 
BrE njuː, AmE n(j)u 

A.  adjective 
① (not known, seen, owned etc. before) 新的 xīn de to be dressed in the newest fashion 穿着最时髦的衣服 a new baby 新生儿 as good as new literal (of things) 完好如新 figurative (of parts of human body) 恢复如初 huīfù rúchū child's cot for sale — as new 出售童床──几乎全新 nearly new 九成新的 to start each question on a new sheet of paper 每个问题另起一页 that's nothing new 这没什么新意 what's new? 有什么新情况吗？ that's a new one on me 这我还是头一回听说 to be new to [somebody]; «subject, idea» 对某人来说是陌生的 
② (recently arrived) 新来的 xīn lái de ‹member, recruit›a new boy/girl 新来的男生/女生 the new intake 新进人员 we're new to the area 我们初来此地 
③ (renewed, changed) 新派的 xīnpài de ‹man, woman›the new Left/rich 新左翼/新贵 new realism/economics 新现实主义/新经济学 
④ (latest) 新型的 xīnxíng de 
⑤ (harvested early) 新鲜的 xīnxiān de ‹potatoes›
B.  adverb 新近的 xīnjìn de a new-built house 新造的房子 new-laid egg 刚下的蛋 
new 
n(y)o͞o

▶adjective
1 not existing before; made, introduced, or discovered recently or now for the first time: new crop varieties 
this tendency is not new 
(as noun the new) : a fascinating mix of the old and the new. 
• not previously used or owned: a secondhand bus cost a fraction of a new one. 
• of recent origin or arrival: a new baby. 
• (of vegetables) dug or harvested early in the season: new potatoes.
2 already existing but seen, experienced, or acquired recently or now for the first time: her new bike. 
• [predicative] (new to) unfamiliar or strange to (someone): a way of living that was new to me. 
• [predicative] (new to/at) (of a person) inexperienced at or unaccustomed to doing (something): I'm quite new to gardening. 
• different from a recent previous one: I have a new assistant 
this would be her new home. 
• in addition to another or others already existing: recruiting new pilots overseas. 
• (in place names) discovered or founded later than and named after: New York.
3 just beginning or beginning anew and regarded as better than what went before: starting a new life 
the new South Africa. 
• (of a person) reinvigorated or restored: a bottle of pills would make him a new man. 
• superseding another or others of the same kind, and advanced in method or theory: the new architecture. 
• reviving another or others of the same kind: the New Bohemians. 
▶adverb [usually in combination] newly; recently: new-mown hay 
new-fallen snow. 
PHRASES
a new one informal an account, idea, or joke not previously encountered by someone: I've heard of lazy, but somebody being too lazy to talk—that's a new one on me. what's new?
1 (said on greeting someone) what's going on? how are you?
2 (also what else is new?) that is the usual situation: she and I squabbled—so what's new? 
men like to see women's legs. So what else is new?DERIVATIVES newish 
ˈn(y)o͞oiSH 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English nīwe, nēowe, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch nieuw and German neu, from an Indo-European root shared by Sanskrit nava,Latin novus, and Greek neos ‘new.’
