next 
BrE nɛkst, AmE nɛkst 

A.  adjective 
① (in order, in time) 紧接着的 jǐnjiēzhe de the next page 下一页 to get the next train 赶上下一班火车 Tuesday next BrE 下星期二 this time next week 下星期的这个时候 in the next two/few days 在随后的两天/几天里 we're going to the US next May 我们5月份要去美国 ‘next (please)! ’ “下一个！” she's next in the queue BrE 她排在下一个 next in line for takeover/for the presidency 排在下一个接管/下一届担任总统 the next size up/down 再大/小一号 the next man/woman/person etc. 普通人 he's as honest as the next person 他和平常人一样诚实 next thing I knew … 接下来… 
② attributive (adjacent) 隔壁的 gébì de ‹room, house›
B.  adverb 
① (after sth.) 随后 suíhòu next, we interviewed Peter 接着我们面试了彼得 next, I'd like to say … 接下来，我想说… what happened next? 然后发生了什么？ 
② (following in order) 下一个 xià yī gè it's my turn next 下一个轮到我 
③ (nearest in order) 紧随其后 jǐn suí qí hòu she's next in age to Susan 她比苏珊年轻 the next tallest is Patrick 个子第二高的人是帕特里克 
④ (referring to future occasion) 下一次 xià yī cì when she next comes to visit 当她下一次来访的时候 they next met in 1998 他们于1998年再次见面 
C.  pronoun 下一个 xià yī gè the next to speak was Jenny 下一位发言的是詹妮 after this bus the next is at noon 这趟公交车过后，下一班在中午 I hope my next will be a boy 我希望我的下一个孩子是男孩 from one minute to the next 转瞬之间 the week/month after next 下下个星期/月 
D.  next to preposition phrase 
① (beside) 紧邻 jǐnlín a table next to the window 紧靠着窗户的桌子 to wear silk next to the skin 贴身穿绸衣 
② (following in order or importance) 仅次于 jǐn cì yú next to Picasso, my favourite painter is Chagall 除了毕加索以外，我最喜欢的画家是夏加尔 
③ (in comparison) 与…相比 yǔ… xiāngbǐ next to her I felt like a fraud 与她相比，我感觉自己像个骗子 
E.  next to adverb phrase 几乎 jīhū next to impossible/useless 几乎不可能/毫无用处 next to last 倒数第二 in next to no time 说时迟那时快 
next 
nekst

▶adjective
1 (of a time or season) coming immediately after the time of writing or speaking: we'll go next year 
next week's parade. 
• (of a day of the week) nearest (or the nearest but one) after the present: not this Wednesday, next Wednesday 
[postpositive] : on Monday next. 
• (of an event or occasion) occurring directly in time after the present or most recent one, without anything of the same kind intervening: the next election 
next time I'll bring a hat.
2 coming immediately after the present one in order, rank, or space: the woman in the next room 
the next chapter 
building materials were next in importance. 
▶adverb on the first or soonest occasion after the present; immediately afterward: wondering what would happen next 
next, I heard the sound of voices. 
• [with superlative] following in the specified order: Joe was the next oldest after Martin. 
▶noun the next person or thing: one moment he wasn't there, the next he was 
the week after next. 
▶preposition archaic next to: he plodded along next him. 
PHRASES
next in line immediately below the present holder of a position in order of succession: he is next in line to the throne. next to
1 in or into a position immediately to one side of; beside: we sat next to each other.
2 following in order or importance: next to buying a whole new wardrobe, nothing lifts the spirits quite like a new hairdo!
3 almost: Charles knew next to nothing about farming.
4 in comparison with: next to her I felt like a fraud. the next world (according to some religious beliefs) the place where one goes after death. what next an expression of surprise or amazement.ORIGIN Old English nēhsta ‘nearest,’ superlative of nēah ‘nigh’; compare with Dutch naast and German nächste .
