nice 
BrE nʌɪs, AmE naɪs 
adjective 
① (enjoyable, pleasant) 令人愉快的 lìng rén yúkuài de it is nice that … …真好 it would be nice (for [somebody]) to do [something] （某人）做某事会很不错 did you have a nice time? 你玩得开心吗？ it is nice sitting in the garden 坐在花园里很惬意 nice to meet/see you 认识/见到你很高兴 ［见面用语］nice to have met/seen you 认识/见到你很高兴 ［道别用语］how nice 太好了 that's nice 很好 ［表示赞许］have a nice day! 祝你今天过得开心！ 
② (attractive, pleasant) 好的 hǎo de ‹place, weather, house, car›; 好看的 hǎokàn de ‹clothes, picture, view›; 好吃的 hǎochī de ‹food, meal›to look/taste nice 好看/好吃 a nice day 晴天 
③ (kind, friendly) 友好的 yǒuhǎo de ‹voice, gesture›to have a nice way of doing [something] 以友好的方式做某事 what a nice man or guy! 真是个好男人！ to be nice to or with [somebody]; 对某人很好 it was nice of him to telephone 他打来了电话，真好 how nice of her to invite me 她邀请我，这真是太好了 to say nice things (about [something]) 赞美（某事物） she is such a nice person to know 她是个好人，值得认识 
④ (respectable) 正经的 zhèngjing de ‹people, book, film›a nice girl/family 正派少女/清白人家 it is not nice to … …不文雅 to have nice manners 风度翩翩 
⑤ (good, satisfactory) 出色的 chūsè de ‹work, attempt›a nice shot 妙射 to make a nice job of [something] 把某事做得很好 nice point! 说得好！ nice work! colloquial 干得好！ gàn de hǎo ！ nice one! colloquial (sth. clever or skilled) 漂亮！ (sth. clever or funny) 说得好！ ironic 干得好！ gàn de hǎo ！ a nice mess ironic 一团糟 that's a nice way to talk to your father ironic 你可真有本事，能这样对你父亲讲话 
⑥ (fine, subtle) 微妙的 wēimiào de ‹point, argument›; 细微的 xìwēi de ‹distinction›he has nice taste in music 他乐感很强 
⑦ formal (precise, exact) 细致的 xìzhì de ‹task, drilling›; 精细的 jīngxì de ‹technique, method›nice coordination 灵巧的协调性 
⑧ colloquial (used for emphasis) 很 hěn a nice long talk 长谈 nice and cool/easy/friendly 酷得很的/极容易的/很友好的 nice and early 一大早 
nice 
nīs

▶adjective
1 pleasant; agreeable; satisfactory: we had a nice time 
that wasn't very nice of him 
Jeremy had been very nice to her. 
• (of a person) pleasant in manner; good-natured; kind: he's a really nice guy.
2 fine or subtle: a nice distinction. 
• requiring careful thought or attention: a nice point.
3 archaic fastidious; scrupulous. 
PHRASES
make nice (or nice-nice) North American informal be pleasant or polite to someone, typically in a hypocritical way: the seat next to him was empty, so he wasn't required to make nice with a stranger.nice and —— satisfactorily or adequately in terms of the quality described: it's nice and warm in here. nice one informal expressing approval or commendation. 
• used sarcastically to comment on an inept act: oh, nice one, she put her finger up to her eye and tugged at the skin. nice to meet you a polite formula used on being introduced to someone. nice work informal expressing approval of a task well done. nice work if you can get it informal used to express envy of what is perceived to be another person's more favorable situation, especially if they seem to have reached it with little effort.ORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘stupid’): from Old French, from Latin nescius ‘ignorant,’ from nescire ‘not know.’ Other early senses included ‘coy, reserved,’ giving rise to ‘fastidious, scrupulous’: this led both to the sense ‘fine, subtle’ (regarded by some as the “correct” sense), and to the main current senses. usage: Nice originally had a number of meanings, including ‘fine, subtle, discriminating’ ( they are not very nice in regard to the company they keep); ‘refined in taste, hard to please, fastidious’ ( for company so nice, the finest caterers would be engaged); and ‘precise, strict’ ( she has a nice sense of decorum). The overuse of nice to mean ‘pleasant, agreeable, satisfactory’ has rendered the word rather trite: we had a very nice time 
this is a nice room 
he's a nice boy.
