night 
BrE nʌɪt, AmE naɪt 
noun 
① Countable and uncountable(period of darkness) 夜晚 yèwǎn at night or in the night 晚上 in the middle of/during the night 在半夜/夜间 on the night of the gale 在那个狂风呼啸的晚上 late at night 在深夜 to travel/hunt by night 夜行/夜晚捕猎 night and day 夜以继日地 ‹work, study›all night (long) 整夜地 night after night 一夜又一夜地 in the dead of night 在夜深人静时 last night 昨天晚上 the night before (last) 前一天晚上 to spend or pass or stay a night 过夜 to spend or stay the night with [somebody] 与某人一起过夜 to have a good/bad night 晚上睡得好/不好 to have a sleepless night 彻夜不眠 to have or get an early night 睡得早 to retire/settle down for the night 晚上上床休息/安顿下来过夜 to be on or work nights 上夜班 to sit up all night (with [somebody]/doing [something]) 熬夜（陪某人/做某事） far into the night (late into the night) 到深夜 (into the early hours of the morning) 到凌晨 throughout the night 通宵地 to have a night out 晚上出去玩 to take a night off 休息一晚上 it's my night off/out 今晚我休息/出去玩 to make a night of it 痛快地玩一晚上 
② Countable(of a performance) 夜场演出 yèchǎng yǎnchū (of a special function) 夜晚活动 yèwǎn huódòng [somebody's] wedding night 某人的新婚之夜 he enjoyed his night at the opera 他晚上歌剧听得很开心 the play will run for five nights 该剧将连演5个晚上 first or opening night 首演之夜 a Shakespeare Night 莎士比亚之夜 
③ Uncountableliterary (nightfall) 夜幕 yèmù night fell quickly 天很快黑了下来 
④ Uncountable(darkness of night) 黑夜 hēiyè black as night 漆黑 
⑤ Countable and uncountablefigurative literary (period of gloom) 黑暗时期 hēi'àn shíqī in our dark night of despair 在我们陷入绝望的黑暗时期 
night 
nīt

▶noun
1 the period of darkness in each twenty-four hours; the time from sunset to sunrise: a moonless night 
the office door is always locked at night. 
• the night as the interval between two days: a two-bedroom cabin costs $90 per night 
somebody put him up for the night. 
• the darkness of night: a line of watchfires stretched away into the night. 
• literary nightfall.
2 the period of time between afternoon and bedtime; an evening: he was not allowed to go out on weekday nights. 
• an evening appointed for some activity, or spent or regarded in a certain way: wasn't it a great night out? 
▶exclam. informal short for good night. 
▶adverb (nights) informal, chiefly North American during the night; at night: investments that won't keep us awake nights with worry. 
PHRASES
night and day all the time; constantly: she studied night and day.DERIVATIVES nightless adjectiveORIGIN Old English neaht, niht, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch nacht and German Nacht, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin nox and Greek nux .
