nod 
BrE nɒd, AmE nɑd 

A.  noun 
① (movement of head) 点头 diǎntóu a nod of the head 点头 diǎntóu to give ([somebody]) a nod (of greeting/recognition) （对某人）点头（致意/表示认识） to answer with a nod 点头作答 with a nod to his guests, he left the room 他向客人点了点头，离开了房间 
② figurative (agreement, approval) 同意 tóngyì to get the nod BrE colloquial (get permission or approval) 得到认可 (be selected) 被选中 to give [somebody]/[something] the nod BrE colloquial (approve) 许可某人/某事物 (select) 选中某人/某物 xuǎnzhòng mǒu rén/mǒu wù he gave the musician the nod to start playing 他对乐手点了点头，示意可以开始演奏 a nod to … (acknowledgement) 对…的认可 (concession) 对…的让步 on the nod BrE colloquial «approve, pass» 以点头方式 a nod is as good as a wink (to a blind man or horse) proverb 一点就通 
③ the land of Nod colloquial 小睡 xiǎoshuì to drift off into the land of Nod 慢慢入睡 mànmàn rùshuì the land of Nod is calling 睡意来了 shuìyì lái le 
B.  intransitive verb(present participle etc. -dd-) 
① (nod the head) 点头 diǎntóu to nod at [something]; 点头同意某事 to nod to or at [somebody] (to do [something]); 向某人点头示意（让其做某事） she nodded in agreement 她点头表示同意 to have a nodding acquaintance with [somebody]/[something] 与某人仅是点头之交/对某事物略知一二 
② (sway) «flowers, treetops» 摇摆 yáobǎi 
③ colloquial (doze) 打盹 dǎdǔn 
④ colloquial (be inattentive) 一时走神 yīshí zǒushén 
C.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -dd-) 
① (incline) to nod one's head 点头 diǎntóu 
② (signify by nod) 点头表示 diǎntóu biǎoshì ‹approval, assent, welcome›PHRASAL VERB nod off intransitive verb colloquial 睡着 shuìzháo 
nod 
näd

▶verb (nods, nodding, nodded)
1 [no object] lower and raise one's head slightly and briefly, especially in greeting, assent, or understanding, or to give someone a signal: he nodded to Monica to unlock the door 
[with object] : she nodded her head in agreement. 
• [with object] signify or express (greeting, assent, or understanding) in this way: he nodded his consent. 
• draw or direct attention to someone or something by moving one's head: he nodded toward the corner of the room. 
• move one's head up and down repeatedly: he shut his eyes, nodding to the beat 
figurative : foxgloves nodding by the path.
2 [no object] have one's head fall forward when drowsy or asleep: Anna nodded over her book. 
▶noun an act of nodding the head: at a nod from his father, he left the room. 
• a gesture of acknowledgment or concession: a feel-good musical with a nod to pantomime. 
PHRASES
a nodding acquaintance a slight acquaintance with a person or cursory knowledge of a subject: students will need a nodding acquaintance with three other languages. even Homer nods proverb even the best person sometimes makes a mistake due to a momentary lack of alertness or attention. [with allusion to Latin dormitat Homerus (Horace Ars Poetica 359).] get the nod
1 be selected or approved.
2 receive a signal or information. give someone/something the nod
1 select or approve someone or something: they banned one book but gave the other the nod.
2 give someone a signal. on the nod informal
1 British by general agreement and without discussion: parliamentary approval of the treaty went through on the nod.
2 dated on credit.
3 alternating between wakefulness and sleepiness on account of heroin use.PHRASAL VERBS nod off informal fall asleep, especially briefly or unintentionally: some of the congregation nodded off during the sermon. nod out informal fall asleep, especially from the effects of a drug: they go to a coffee shop, get stoned, go to a club at 11, and nod out at midnight.ORIGIN late Middle English (as a verb): perhaps of Low German origin; compare with Middle High German notten ‘move around, shake.’ The noun dates from the mid 16th century.
