none 
BrE nʌn, AmE nən 

A.  pronoun 
① (not one) 全无 quán wú we saw several flats, but none we really liked 我们看了几处公寓，可是没有我们真正喜欢的 she thought a bad husband was worse than none at all 她认为一个坏丈夫比没有丈夫还要糟 none of the books was or were any help 这些书没一本有用的 do you have any doubts? — none whatever 你有什么怀疑吗？──一点都没有 
② (no part) 什么也没有 shénme yě méiyou there's none left 什么也没有留下 some money is better than none 有点儿钱总比没有好 he has none of his mother's intelligence 他根本没有他母亲的智慧 none of your nonsense! 别尽胡说！ none at all 根本没有 to want/have none of [something] 拒绝接受某事物 I want none of your nonsense! 我根本不想听你的废话！ 
③ (nobody) 没有人 méiyou rén as a lawyer, he's second to none 作为律师，他是最棒的 there's none so clever/old as Jane 没有人像简那样聪明/老 none but literary 只有 she had told none but him 她只告诉了他 none other than [somebody] 竟然是某人 it was none other than Edward 那正是爱德华 
④ (on form, questionnaire) 无 wú in the box headed ‘dependants’he wrote ‘none’ 在“供养家属”一栏里，他写上了“无” 
B.  adverb 
① none too; (not at all) 一点也不 yīdiǎn yě bù (not very) 不太 bù tài her sight's none too good 她的视力不太好 tā de shìlì bù tài hǎo none too pleased 不太高兴 bù tài gāoxìng and none too soon! 差点来不及！ chàdiǎn láibují ！ 
② (in no way) 毫不 háo bù the play is long, but none the worse for that 这部戏虽然很长，但一点也不差 
none
1 
nən

▶pronoun not any: none of you want to work 
don't use any more water, or there'll be none left for me. 
• no person; no one: none could match her looks. 
▶adverb (none the) [with comparative] by no amount; not at all: it is made none the easier by the differences in approach. 
PHRASES
none the less see nonetheless. none other than used to emphasize the surprising identity of a person or thing: her first customer was none other than Henry du Pont. be none the wiser see wise1. none the worse for see worse. none too see too. want (or will have) none of (especially with reference to behavior) refuse to accept (something): Danny offered to wait below, but Peter would have none of it.ORIGIN Old English nān, from ne ‘not’ + ān ‘one,’ of Germanic origin; compare with German nein ‘no!’ usage: It is sometimes held that none can take only a singular verb, never a plural verb: none of them is coming tonight, rather than none of them are coming tonight. There is little justification, historical or grammatical, for this view. None is descended from Old English nān, meaning ‘not one,’ and has been used for around a thousand years with both a singular and a plural verb, depending on the context and the emphasis needed.
