north 
BrE nɔːθ, AmE nɔrθ 

A.  nounUncountable(direction) 北 běi (position or location) 北方 běifāng (northern part) 北部 běibù to the north; (position) 在北面 (movement) 向北面 from or in the north; 来自北面 when the wind is in the north 在刮北风的时候 up north colloquial 在北方 the North; AmE 美国北方地区 ［尤指美国内战期间的北部诸州］ BrE 英格兰北部 Yīnggélán běibù a town in the north of Spain 西班牙北部的一个城镇 
B.  adjective 
① (northern) 北边的 běibian de on the north side of the island 在岛屿的北侧 north Asia 北亚 
② attributive (from the north) 来自北边的 láizì běibian de a north wind 北风 
C.  adverb 
① (to the north, on the northern side) 在北边 zài běibian ‹situated›north of [something]; 在某物的北边 to lie due north of London 位于伦敦正北面 
② (towards the north) 向北 xiàng běi due north 向正北 
north 
nôrTH

▶noun (usually the north)
1 the direction in which a compass needle normally points, toward the horizon on the left side of a person facing east, or the part of the horizon lying in this direction: a bitter wind blew from the north 
Mount Kenya is to the north of Nairobi. 
• the compass point corresponding to this. 
• a direction in space parallel to the earth's axis of rotation and toward the point on the celestial sphere around which the stars appear to turn counterclockwise.
2 the northern part of the world or of a specified country, region, or town: cuisine from the north of Spain 
limber pine in the central Rockies, and whitebark pine and alpine larch in the north. 
• (usually the North) the northern part of the US, especially the northeastern states that fought to preserve the Union during the Civil War: delegates from Virginia voted to join the North.
3 (North) [as name] Bridge the player occupying a designated position at the table, sitting opposite and partnering South. 
▶adjective [attributive]
1 lying toward, near, or facing the north: the north bank of the river 
the north door. 
• (of a wind) blowing from the north.
2 of or denoting the northern part of a specified area, city, or country or its inhabitants: North African. 
▶adverb
1 to or toward the north: the landscape became more dramatic as we drove north 
my window faced north.
2 (north of) informal above (a particular amount, cost, etc.): they expect to spend north of $6 million for this latest campaign. 
PHRASES
north by east (or west) between north and north-northeast (or north-northwest).up north informal to or in the north of a country: he's taken a teaching job up north.ORIGIN Old English, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch noord and German nord .
