nowhere 
BrE ˈnəʊwɛː, AmE ˈnoʊˌ(h)wɛr 

A.  adverb 
① (in, at, to no place) 哪里都不 nǎli dōu bù she goes almost nowhere 她几乎哪儿也不去 this animal is found in Australia and nowhere else 这种动物只在澳大利亚才有 to be nowhere to be seen/found 无处可见/可寻 to be nowhere in sight literal 无处可见 figurative 渺茫 miǎománg a peace settlement is nowhere in sight 和平协议仍遥遥无期 
② (in difficult situation) 毫无进展 háo wú jìnzhǎn I'd be nowhere without my laptop 没有笔记本电脑，我什么也做不了 to go nowhere (make no progress) 停滞不前 (enough to buy little) 买不了什么 these negotiations are going nowhere 这些谈判没有取得任何进展 £10 goes nowhere these days 如今10英镑买不了什么东西 to get nowhere (with [somebody]/[something]) （与某人/在某事上）没有任何进展 he'll get nowhere with her 他跟她不会有什么结果的 we're getting nowhere fast colloquial 我们毫无进展 to get [somebody] nowhere 让某人一无所获 flattery will get you nowhere! 奉承不会给你带来任何好处！ 
B.  pronoun 没有地方 méiyou dìfang miles from nowhere 非常偏僻 to appear or come from or out of nowhere 突然冒出来 she came out of nowhere to win the race 她不知从哪里冒了出来，赢得了赛跑比赛 
C.  nowhere near adverb,preposition phrase 
① (in distance, degree) 远离 yuǎn lí nowhere near [something]; 距离某物很遥远 to be nowhere near doing [something]; 离做某事差很远 the village was still nowhere near 那个村庄仍然很远 
② (not nearly) 远非 yuǎn fēi their performance was nowhere near satisfactory 他们的表现远未达到满意的程度 the house is nowhere near big enough 房子太小了 
nowhere 
ˈnōˌ(h)wer

▶adverb not in or to any place; not anywhere: plants and animals found nowhere else in the world 
Andrea is nowhere to be found. 
▶pronoun
1 no place: there was nowhere for her to sit 
there's nowhere better to experience the wonders of the Rockies.
2 a place that is remote, uninteresting, or nondescript: a stretch of road between nowhere and nowhere 
[as noun] : the town is a particularly American nowhere. 
▶adjective [attributive] informal having no prospect of progress or success: she's involved in a nowhere affair with a married executive. 
PHRASES
from (or out of) nowhere appearing or happening suddenly and unexpectedly: he materialized a taxi out of nowhere. get (or go) nowhere make no progress: I'm getting nowhere—maybe I should give up 
the project was going nowhere fast. get someone nowhere be of no use or benefit to someone: being angry would get her nowhere. the middle of nowhere informal a place that is remote and isolated. nowhere near not nearly: he's nowhere near as popular as he used to be. a road to nowhere a situation or course of action offering no prospects of progress or advancement.ORIGIN Old English nāhwǣr (see no, where).
