nut 
BrE nʌt, AmE nət 

A.  noun 
① (hard fruit) 坚果 jiānguǒ chocolate with nuts in it 果仁巧克力 to be a hard or tough nut colloquial «person» 很难对付 a hard nut to crack 难题 nut rissole 果仁炸肉饼 
② Technology 螺母 luómǔ 
③ colloquial (eccentric) 怪人 guàirén (crazy person) 疯子 fēngzi he's a bit of a nut 他疯疯癫癫的 
④ colloquial (enthusiast) 入迷者 rùmízhě a fitness/health food nut 健身迷/保健食品迷 
⑤ colloquial (head) 脑袋 nǎodai watch your nut! 当心碰头！ use your nut! 用用脑子！ to go or be off one's nut 发疯 to do one's nut BrE 大发雷霆 
⑥ nuts plural slang (testicles) 睾丸 gāowán 
⑦ (in climbing) 岩石塞 yánshí sāi 
B.  exclamation nuts! 我不在乎！ wǒ bù zàihu ！ nuts to you! 去你的！ qù nǐ de ！ 
C.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -tt-) BrE colloquial 用头撞 yòng tóu zhuàng 
nut 
nət

▶noun
1 a fruit consisting of a hard or tough shell around an edible kernel.nut
2 
• the hard kernel of a nut. 
• informal a person's head. 
• (usually nuts) vulgar slang testicles.
2 a small flat piece of metal or other material, typically square or hexagonal, with a threaded hole through it for screwing onto a bolt as a fastener. 
• Music the part at the lower end of the bow of a violin or similar instrument, with a screw for adjusting the tension of the hair.
3 informal a crazy or eccentric person. 
• [with modifier] a person who is excessively interested in or enthusiastic about a specified thing: a football nut.
4 the fixed ridge on the neck of a stringed instrument over which the strings pass. 
▶verb (nuts, nutting, nutted)
1 [no object] (usually as noun nutting) archaic gather nuts.
2 [with object] British informal butt (someone) with one's head. 
PHRASES
do one's nut British informal be extremely angry or agitated. nuts and bolts informal the basic practical details: the nuts and bolts of public policy. off one's nut informal out of one's mind; crazy. a tough (or hard) nut informal someone who is difficult to deal with; a formidable person. a tough (or hard) nut to crack informal a difficult problem or an opponent hard to beat.DERIVATIVES nutlike 
-ˌlīk 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English hnutu, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch noot and German Nuss .
