odd 
BrE ɒd, AmE ɑd 

A.  adjective 
① (strange) 奇怪的 qíguài de ‹thing, appearance, clothes›; 古怪的 gǔguài de ‹person, behaviour›it's odd that he hasn't come 奇怪的是他没来 how odd that … 真奇怪… that's odd 这有点怪 the odd thing about it is … 怪就怪在… she's a bit odd colloquial 她有点怪怪的 
② attributive (not matching) 不成对的 bù chéng duì de ‹item›he was wearing (two) odd socks 他穿着（两只）不成双的袜子 the odd man or one out (left over) 落单者 (different) 异类 to feel the odd one out colloquial 感到格格不入 to lose by the odd goal Sport 一球之差输了 
③ attributive (miscellaneous, extra) 零散的 língsǎn de odd scraps or bits of material 边角料 to have a few odd coins left 还剩几枚硬币 do you have the odd 3p? 你有3便士零钱吗？ do you have an odd minute to spare? 你能抽出片刻时间吗？ 
④ attributive (occasional) 偶尔的 ǒu'ěr de ‹occurrence›; 零星的 língxīng de ‹object›; 临时的 línshí de ‹job›to write the odd article 偶尔写写文章 to have the odd drink 难得喝一杯 the odd moment of melancholy/despair 偶尔郁闷/绝望的时候 at odd moments/times 偶尔/不时地 in odd corners 在偏僻的角落 
⑤ Mathematics 奇数的 jīshù de
3 is an odd number 3是奇数 
B.  -odd combining form (approximately) 略多的 lüè duō de 50odd pounds 50多英镑 twentyodd years 二十来年 
odd 
äd

▶adjective
1 different from what is usual or expected; strange: the neighbors thought him very odd 
[with clause] : it's odd that she didn't recognize me.
2 (of whole numbers such as
3 and 5) having one left over as a remainder when divided by two. 
• [postpositive in combination] in the region of or somewhat more than a particular number or quantity: she looked younger than her fifty-odd years.
3 [attributive] happening or occurring infrequently and irregularly; occasional: neither did she want a secret affair, snatching odd moments together. 
• spare; unoccupied: when you've got an odd five minutes, could I have a word?
4 separated from a usual pair or set and therefore out of place or mismatched: he's wearing odd socks. 
PHRASES
odd one (or man) out a person or thing differing from all other members of a particular group or set in some way: I hate being the odd one out among friends who are all couples 
in the case of the verb become, the odd one out is the past form.DERIVATIVES oddish adjective odd ( sense 1) . oddness 
ˈädnəs 
nounORIGIN Middle English ( sense 2): from Old Norse odda-, found in combinations such as odda-mathr ‘third or odd man,’ from oddi ‘angle.’
