of 
BrE ɒv, (ə)v, AmE əv 
preposition 
① (indicating possession, inclusion, qualities) …的 … de the crew of the aircraft 全体机务人员 the legs of the table 桌子腿 there were five of us 我们有5个人 a man of courage 勇敢的男人 the work is of great interest 这工作很有趣 a map of Oxford 牛津地图 
② (indicating source) [表示来源]the symphonies of Beethoven 贝多芬的交响乐 a family of royal origin 有王室血统的家庭 a problem of his own making 他自己搞出来的问题 
③ (indicating identity) [表示同一所指]the city of Rome 罗马城 the art of photography 摄影艺术 the day of the earthquake 地震那天 that idiot of a plumber 那个白痴管子工 
④ (indicating category) [表示类型]various types of [something] 各类某事物 
⑤ (indicating age) …岁的 … suì de a girl of
10 10岁大的女孩 
⑥ (indicating extent) [表示程度]an increase of 6% 6％的增长 at a speed of
5 mph 以每小时5英里的速度 
⑦ (from among) …中的 … zhōng de of the ten, only one came 10个人只来了1个 you of all people ought to know 最应该知道的就是你 
⑧ (made up of) 由…组成的 yóu… zǔchéng de (made from) 由…制成的 yóu… zhìchéng de areas of marshland 沼泽区 a door of mahogany 桃花心木门 what is it made of? 它是用什么材料做的？ 
⑨ (containing) 装有…的 zhuāngyǒu… de a glass of beer 一杯啤酒 
⑩ (in charge of) 掌管…的 zhǎngguǎn… de the Lord Mayor of London 伦敦市长阁下 
⑪ (in, at) 在…的 zài… de the streets of Glasgow 格拉斯哥的街道 
⑫ (referring to position) 相对于 xiāngduì yú (referring to quality, time) 在…方面 zài… fāngmiàn for fear of [something] 因为害怕某事 to be fond of [somebody]/[something] 喜欢某人/某物 south of Birmingham 伯明翰以南 slow of speech 口齿不伶俐
20 years of age 20岁 
⑬ (directed toward) 对于…的 duìyú… de love of family 对家庭的爱 teachers of history 历史老师 
⑭ (done by) 由…做的 yóu… zuò de the decision of the court 法庭的决定 to happen of itself 自行发生 
⑮ (on one's part) 在…一方 zài… yīfāng how kind of you 你真好 it was horrid of him to do that 他做那事真是太可怕了 
⑯ (indicating removal) [表示去除]loss of appetite 没胃口 to cure [somebody] of Aids 治愈某人的艾滋病 to be robbed of [something] 被抢去某物 
⑰ (in comparisons) 如…般的 rú… bān de sunsets the colour of blood 血色黄昏 
⑱ (in dates) [表示日期]the 24th of June 6月24日 
⑲ (on, during) [表示在某个时间]your letter of the 17th 你17日的来信 it was often fine of a morning BrE 早晨天气往往挺好 
⑳ AmE (before) 在…之前 zài… zhīqián a quarter of six 六点差一刻 
of 
əv

▶preposition
1 expressing the relationship between a part and a whole: the sleeve of his coat 
in the back of the car 
the days of the week 
a series of programs 
a piece of cake 
a lot of money.
2 expressing the relationship between a scale or measure and a value: an increase of
5 percent 
a height of
10 feet. 
• expressing an age: a boy of fifteen.
3 indicating an association between two entities, typically one of belonging: the son of a friend 
the government of India 
a photograph of the bride 
[with a possessive] : a former colleague of John's. 
• expressing the relationship between an author, artist, or composer and their works collectively: the plays of Shakespeare 
the paintings of Rembrandt.
4 expressing the relationship between a direction and a point of reference: north of Chicago 
on the left of the picture.
5 expressing the relationship between a general category and the thing being specified which belongs to such a category: the city of Prague 
the idea of a just society 
the set of all genes. 
• governed by a noun expressing the fact that a category is vague: this type of book 
the general kind of answer that would satisfy me.
6 indicating the relationship between a verb and an indirect object. 
• with a verb expressing a mental state: they must be persuaded of the severity of the problem 
I don't know of anything that would be suitable. 
• expressing a cause: he died of cancer.
7 indicating the material or substance constituting something: the house was built of bricks 
walls of stone.
8 North American expressing time in relation to the following hour: it would be just a quarter of three in New York. 
PHRASES
be of possess intrinsically; give rise to: this work is of great interest and value. of all denoting the least likely or expected example: Jordan, of all people, committed a flagrant foul. of all the nerve (or British cheek) an expression of indignation.of an evening (or morning, etc.) informal
1 on most evenings (or mornings, etc.).
2 at some time in the evenings (or mornings, etc.).ORIGIN Old English, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch af and German ab, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin ab and Greek apo . usage: It is a mistake to use of instead of have in constructions such as you should have asked (not you should of asked). For more information, see usage at have .
