off 
BrE ɒf, AmE ɔf, ɑf 

A.  adverb 
① (leaving) 离开 líkāi to run off 跑开 to roll off 滚落 it's time we were off 我们该走了 I'm off to Scotland 我要去苏格兰了 he's off fishing 他去钓鱼了 to get off of [something]/[somebody]; 离开某物/某人 to let [somebody] off at the next stop 让某人在下一站下车 off with you! 走开！ zǒukāi ！ and they're off! Sport 他们开跑了！ to get/be off to a good start colloquial 头开得不错 right/straight off colloquial 马上 
② (detached, removed) 脱离 tuōlí the handle has come/is off 手柄脱落了 with one's jacket/make-up off 脱了夹克衫/已卸妆 to have one's leg off 被截掉腿 to blow the roof off «wind» 掀掉屋顶 
③ (aside) 在旁边 zài pángbiān somewhere off to the left 在左边某处 
④ (adjacent) 邻接着 línjiēzhe bedrooms with bathroom off 紧挨着卫生间的卧室 
⑤ (at a distance, ahead in time) 距 jù to be a yard off 在一码开外 some way/not far off 一段距离外/不远处 Easter is a month off/isn't far off 离复活节还有1个月/复活节快到了 
⑥ (from work) 休息 xiūxi to have or take a week off 休假一周 to ask for time off 请假 to be off sick 因病不上班 
⑦ (as separation) 分隔 fēngé marked off into sections 被划分为几部分 fenced/curtained off 被栅栏/帘子隔开 
⑧ (turned off) 关掉 guāndiào to be off; «light» 关了 the gas/electricity is off 煤气断了/停电了 
⑨ (cancelled) 取消 qǔxiāo to be off; 被取消 their engagement is off 他们的婚约取消了 the meeting is off 会议延期了 
⑩ (deducted) 减掉 jiǎndiào I'll give you 10% off 我给你打9折 
⑪ (positioned) 处于…境况 chǔyú… jìngkuàng to be badly/well off 贫穷/富裕 to be better off than [somebody] 经济比某人宽裕 how are you off for money/time? 你还有多少钱/时间？ 
⑫ (not fresh) 不新鲜 bù xīnxiān to be off; 变质 the meat's gone off 肉坏了 
⑬ (asleep) 睡着 shuìzháo I just got the baby off 我刚把宝宝哄睡 
⑭ (by heart) 流利地 liúlì de he got it off pat 他都背熟了 
⑮ BrE colloquial (unwell) 不对头 bù duìtóu to feel a bit off 感觉不太舒服 a bit off (unwise) 不妥当 (unfair) 不公平 her behaviour was a bit off 她的行为有点怪 
⑯ BrE colloquial (unavailable) 不供应 bù gōngyìng the roast beef is off 烤牛肉没有了 
⑰ Theatre 在幕后 zài mùhòu voices/noises off 幕后声音/噪声 
B.  preposition 
① (leaving, detaching from) 从…离开 cóng… líkāi to fall/jump off a wall 从墙上摔下来/跳下来 to get off a train 下火车 to get the car off the road 把车开下公路 to tear the door off its hinges 把门从铰链上拽下来 the light reflected off the glass 玻璃的反光 it's a huge burden off my shoulders figurative 我如释重负 
② (from place, date, event) 离 lí
3 km off the motorway 距离高速公路3公里 islands off the coast 海岸附近的岛屿 the lid was off the jar 罐子的盖子被打开了 to be a long way/not far off doing [something] 离做某事还很远/很近 only a year off retirement 只有一年就退休了 
③ (deviating from) 偏离 piānlí to be off balance 失去平衡 to be blown off course «ship» 被吹离航线 to take his mind off his troubles 使他忘却烦恼 
④ (accessed from) 在…旁边 zài… pángbiān the kitchen is off the dining room 厨房与餐厅相连 
⑤ colloquial (from) 来自 láizì to get [something] off (of) a friend 从朋友那里得到某物 to borrow [something] off (of) a neighbour 向邻居借某物 to eat off (of) a plate 用盘子吃东西 to work off a battery 靠电池驱动 a wind blowing off the sea 从海上吹来的风 
⑥ (disengaged from) 不参与 bù cānyù to take a week off work 休息一周 to stay off alcohol colloquial 戒酒 to be off drugs 戒毒 
⑦ colloquial (no longer keen on) 不热衷 bù rèzhōng to be off [something]/[somebody]; 对某事物/某人不再感兴趣 to be off one's food 没有胃口 
⑧ (deducted from) 从…减去 cóng… jiǎnqù I'll take a pound off the price for you 我给你便宜1英镑 
⑨ (deleted from) 从…删去 cóng… shānqù to be off the menu 被撤出了菜单 take my name off the list 把我从名单里删掉 
C.  adjectiveattributive 
① (not functioning) 关着的 guānzhe de the off position 关闭位置 
② (substandard) 不如意的 bù rúyì de ‹day, period›we both had an off day 那天我俩都挺倒霉的 
③ BrE Auto 右侧的 yòucè de the off front wheel 右前轮 
④ (in cricket) 斜前方的 xié qiánfāng de ‹spin›; 击球手面向的 jīqiúshǒu miànxiàng de ‹side›; 向击球手对面的 xiàng jīqiúshǒu duìmiàn de ‹drive›
D.  exclamation off with …; 把…除掉 bǎ… chúdiào off with his head! 把他的头砍了！ bǎ tā de tóu kǎn le ！ (get) off! 走开！ zǒukāi ！ 
E.  off and on adverb phrase → on 
E.  
F.  noun BrE colloquial 
① (start of race) the off; 起跑 qǐpǎo 
② (outset) the off; 开始 kāishǐ from the off 从一开始 cóng yī kāishǐ 
G.  intransitive verb colloquial 离开 líkāi to up and off 突然离去 
H.  transitive verb AmE colloquial 杀死 shāsǐ ‹person›
off 
ôf äf

▶adverb
1 away from the place in question; to or at a distance: the man ran off 
she dashed off to her room 
we must be off now. 
• away from the main route: turning off for Ripon.
2 so as to be removed or separated: he whipped off his coat 
a section of the runway had been cordoned off. 
• absent; away from work: take a day off 
he is off on sick leave.
3 starting a journey or race; leaving: the gunmen made off on foot 
they're off!
4 so as to bring to an end or be discontinued: the Christmas party rounded off a hugely successful year 
she broke off her reading to look at her husband. 
• canceled: tell them the wedding's off. 
• British informal (of a menu item) temporarily unavailable: strawberries are off.
5 (of an electrical appliance or power supply) not functioning or so as to cease to function: switch the TV off 
the electricity was off for four days.
6 chiefly British having access to or possession of material goods or wealth to the extent specified: we'd been rather badly off for books 
how are you off for money? 
▶preposition
1 moving away and often down from: he rolled off the bed 
the coat slipped off his arms 
trying to get us off the stage.
2 situated or leading in a direction away from (a main route or intersection): single wires leading off the main lines 
a backstreet off Olympic Boulevard. 
• out at sea from (a place on the coast): anchoring off Blue Bay 
six miles off Dunkirk.
3 so as to be removed or separated from: threatening to tear it off its hinges 
they are knocking $2,000 off the price 
figurative : it's a huge burden off my shoulders. 
• absent from: I took a couple of days off work. 
• informal abstaining from: he managed to stay off alcohol. 
▶adjective
1 [attributive] characterized by someone performing or feeling worse than usual; unsatisfactory or inadequate: even the greatest athletes have off days.
2 [predicative] (of food) no longer fresh: the fish was a bit off.
3 [attributive] located on the side of a vehicle that is normally furthest from the curb; offside. Compare with near ( sense
4 of the adjective).
4 [predicative] British informal annoying or unfair: His boss deducted the money from his pay. That was a bit off.
5 [predicative] British informal unwell: I felt decidedly off. 
▶noun (also off side) Cricket the half of the field (as divided lengthways through the pitch) toward which the batsman's feet are pointed when standing to receive the ball. The opposite of leg. 
▶verb [with object] informal North American kill; murder: she might off a cop, but she wouldn't shoot her boyfriend. 
PHRASES
off and on intermittently; now and then.ORIGIN Old English, originally a variant of of (which combined the senses of ‘of’ and ‘off’). usage: Off of is often used in place of the preposition off in contexts such as she picked it up off of the floor (compared with she picked it up off the floor). Although off of is recorded from the 16th century (it was used by Shakespeare) and is logically parallel to the standard out of, it is regarded as incorrect in standard modern English.
