oil 
BrE ɔɪl, AmE ɔɪl 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(petroleum) 石油 shíyóu to drill for oil 钻探石油 to strike oil literal 发现油矿 figurative (get rich) 发横财 fā hèngcái (succeed in business) 生意兴隆 shēngyi xīnglóng the oil industry 石油业 an oil magnate 石油巨头 
② Uncountable and countable(for lubrication) 润滑油 rùnhuáyóu (for engine) 机油 jīyóu (for heat, light) 燃油 rányóu paraffin oil especially BrE 石蜡油 oil and water don't mix colloquial 水火不相容 
③ Uncountable and countableCulinary, Pharmacology (from plants) 植物油 zhíwùyóu (from animals) 动物油 dòngwùyóu olive/peanut oil 橄榄/花生油 cooking/salad oil 烹调用油/色拉油 fried in oil 油炸的 to cook with oil 用油做菜 an oil and vinegar dressing 油醋调味品 oil of cloves/lemon 丁香/柠檬油 sperm or whale oil 鲸油 
④ Uncountable and countable(in cosmetics) 防护油 fánghùyóu hair/suntan oil 发油/防晒油 essential oils 精油 bath oil 沐浴油 
⑤ Uncountable and countableArt (medium) 油画颜料 yóuhuà yánliào to paint in oils 作油画 zuò yóuhuà a landscape in oil(s) 风景油画 
⑥ CountableArt (painting) 油画 yóuhuà an oil by Rembrandt 一幅伦勃朗的油画作品 
⑦ CountableChemistry 油类 yóulèi 
B.  transitive verb 给…上油 gěi… shàng yóu ‹machine, hinge, bike, wood›; 在…里放油 zài… li fàng yóu ‹frying pan›; 在…上抹油 zài… shang mǒ yóu ‹skin, hair›to need oiling «mechanism, surface» 需要上油 to oil the wheels or works figurative 进行疏通 
oil 
oil

▶noun
1 a viscous liquid derived from petroleum, especially for use as a fuel or lubricant. 
• petroleum. 
• [with modifier] any of various thick, viscous, typically flammable liquids that are insoluble in water but soluble in organic solvents and are obtained from animals or plants: potatoes fried in vegetable oil. 
• a liquid preparation used on the hair or skin as a cosmetic: suntan oil. 
• Chemistry any of a group of natural esters of glycerol and various fatty acids that are liquid at room temperature. Compare with fat.
2 (often oils) oil paint: a portrait in oils. 
▶verb [with object] (often as adjective oiled) lubricate or coat (something) with oil: a lightly oiled baking tray 
her hair was heavily oiled. 
PHRASES
oil and water used to refer to two elements, factors, or people that do not agree or blend together.DERIVATIVES oilless adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: from Old Northern French olie,Old French oile, from Latin oleum ‘(olive) oil’; compare with olea ‘olive.’
