OK
1 
BrE əʊˈkeɪ, AmE ˌoʊˈkeɪ/ colloquial A. exclamation 
① (in agreement) [表示同意或接受]let's go! — OK 我们走吧！──好的 OK, OK, I give in 好，好，我让步 
② (seeking consensus) [表示征求同意]I'm going now, OK? 我要走了，好吗？ 
③ (seeking information) [用于了解情况]OK, what's going on here? 那么，这里出什么事了？ 
④ (introducing topic) [用于引出话题]OK, turn to page 26 好，翻到第26页 
B.  adjective 
① (all right) 尚可的 shàng kě de ‹job, party, food, behaviour›the music was OK 音乐还可以 lunch was OK 午饭还行 he's OK as a plumber 他是个不错的水管工 is my hair OK? 我的发型可以吗？ the fit's OK, but … 衣服还算合身，但是… he's an OK guy 他这个人不错 
② predicative (fine) 良好的 liánghǎo de everything's OK 一切都好 are you OK for money? 你的钱够吗？ I'm OK for time: let's have a coffee 我有时间：我们喝杯咖啡吧 
③ predicative (well) 身体好的 shēntǐ hǎo de are you OK? 你没事吧？ how are you? — OK 你好吗？──很好 to feel OK after a rest 休息过后感觉好起来了 
④ predicative (permissible) 可行的 kěxíng de it's OK/not OK to do [something] 可以/不可以做某事 to be OK by or with [somebody]; 对某人而言是可以的 it's OK by me if you want to go 如果你想走，我没意见 is it OK if I go? 我走可以吗？ 
C.  adverb 不错地 bùcuò de to manage perfectly OK 做得非常出色 to work OK «computer, appliance» 工作正常 
D.  transitive verb(present participle OK'ing; past tense, past participle OK'd) 批准 pīzhǔn ‹request, document›
E.  noun singular the /one's OK; 许可 xǔkě to get the/[somebody's] OK for [something] 获得某事的许可/某人对某事的许可 huòdé mǒu shì de xǔkě/mǒu rén duì mǒu shì de xǔkě to give the or one's OK (to [something]/to do [something]) 同意（某事/做某事） tóngyì(mǒu shì/zuò mǒu shì) 
OK, okay informal 
▶exclamation OK, I'll go with him: all right, right, very well, very good, fine, fair enough; informal okey-doke, okey-dokey. ANTONYMS no way.
▶adjective
1 the movie was okay: satisfactory, all right, acceptable, competent; adequate, tolerable, passable, reasonable, fair, decent, good enough, not bad, average, middling, moderate, unremarkable, unexceptional; informal so-so, 'comme ci, comme ça', fair-to-middling. ANTONYMS unsatisfactory, unacceptable.
2 Jo's feeling OK now: fine, all right, well, in good shape, in good health, fit, healthy, up to snuff; informal as fit as a fiddle, in the pink, as right as rain, hunky-dory. ANTONYMS ill, unwell.
3 is it OK for me to come? permissible, allowable, acceptable, all right, in order, permitted, fitting, suitable, appropriate, fine; informal kosher.
▶adverb everything seems to be going okay: all right, fine, well, well enough, satisfactorily, acceptably.
▶noun he's just given me his OK 
we have to wait for the OK : authorization, approval, (the) seal of approval, agreement, consent, assent, permission, endorsement, ratification, sanction, approbation, confirmation, (the) blessing, leave; informal (the) go-ahead, (the) green light, (the) thumbs up, (the) say-so. ANTONYMS refusal.
▶verb the move must be okayed by the president: authorize, approve, agree to, consent to, sanction, pass, ratify, endorse, allow, give something the nod, rubber-stamp; informal give the go-ahead, give the green light, give the thumbs up; formal accede to. ANTONYMS refuse, veto.
