old 
BrE əʊld, AmE oʊld 

A.  adjective 
① (elderly) 老的 lǎo de an old man 老头 lǎotóu old Mr Jones 老琼斯先生 old people 老年人 lǎoniánrén older people 上了年纪的人 to get or grow old 变老 old and infirm 年老体弱 to be old before one's time 未老先衰 
② (of a certain age) …岁的 … suì de ‹person, animal›; …久的 … jiǔ de ‹institution, building, geological feature›how old are you? 你几岁了？ how old is this tree/building? 这棵树/这幢楼有多少年了？ a centuries-old tradition 几世纪之久的传统 I'm older than you (are) 我比你年龄大 older sister/daughter 姐姐/大女儿 to be old for one's age 比实际年龄显大 that dress is too old for you 那条连衣裙你穿上太显老了 
③ (not new) 旧的 jiù de ‹object, building›(not fresh) 不新鲜的 bù xīnxiān de ‹vegetables›an old rag 一块破布 this bread is a week old 面包放了一个星期了 
④ (dating far back) 古老的 gǔlǎo de ‹building, institution, family, tradition›; 老掉牙的 lǎodiàoyá de ‹story, song›an old custom 由来已久的风俗 an old enemy/friend/rival 夙敌/老友/老对手 an old firm 老牌公司 the old part of Edinburgh 爱丁堡的老城区 to be as old as the hills 很古老 
⑤ attributive (former) 以前的 yǐqián de ‹job, house, admirer›(in) the old days （在）往昔 it was like old times 就像过去的好时光 an old school mate 一位老校友 to put [something] back in its old place 把某物放回原处 
⑥ attributive colloquial dated (as term of affection) [表示亲昵或熟悉]dear old Sally 亲爱的老萨利 hello, old chap! dated 喂，老伙计！ my old car 我的老爷车 
⑦ colloquial (as intensifier) [用作强调]any old time/place 随时/随地 any old shirt will do 随便哪件衬衫都行 I don't want just any old doctor 我不想随便找个医生 it's a funny old world 这真是可笑的世道 
B.  noun 
① Countable(elderly people) the old plural 老年人 lǎoniánrén young and old 老老少少 enjoyed by young and old alike 老少皆宜的 
② Uncountable(earlier era) of old 以前 yǐqián in days of old 从前 cóngqián men of old 古人 gǔrén I know him of old 我认识他很久了 wǒ rènshi tā hěn jiǔ le 
old 
ōld

▶adjective (older, oldest)
1 having lived for a long time; no longer young. See also elder1, eldest: the old man lay propped up on cushions. 
• made or built long ago: the old quarter of the town. 
• possessed or used for a long time: he gave his old clothes away. 
• having the characteristics or showing the signs of age: he complained of being old beyond his years. 
• informal, chiefly US boring or tiresome, especially as a result of repetition or overfamiliarity: I wish she'd shut up—it's getting old.
2 [attributive] belonging only or chiefly to the past; former or previous: valuation under the old rating system was inexact. 
• used to refer to the first of two or more similar things: I was going to try to get my old job back. 
• dating from far back; long-established or known: we greet each other like old friends 
I get sick of the same old routine. 
• (of a form of a language) as used in former or earliest times.
3 [in combination] of a specified age: he was fourteen years old 
a seven-month-old baby. 
• [as noun in combination] a person or animal of the age specified: a nineteen-year-old.
4 [attributive] informal used to express affection, familiarity, or contempt: it gets the old adrenaline going 
“Good old Mom,” she said. 
PHRASES
any old any item of a specified type (used to show that no particular or special individual is in question): any old room would have done. any old way in no particular order: they've dropped things just any old way. as old as the hills of very long standing or very great age (often used in exaggerated statements). be old enough to be someone's father (or mother) informal of a much greater age than someone (especially used to suggest that a romantic or sexual relationship between the people concerned is inappropriate).for old times' sake see sake1. of old
1 in or belonging to the past: he was more reticent than of old.
2 starting long ago; for a long time: they knew him of old. the old days a period in the past, often seen as significantly different from the present, especially noticeably better or worse: it was easier in the old days 
we are less confident than in the good old days 
the bad old days of incoherence and irresponsibility.DERIVATIVES oldish 
ˈōldiSH 
adjective. oldness nounORIGIN Old English ald; related to Dutch oud and German alt, from an Indo-European root meaning ‘grown-up, adult,’ shared by Latin alere ‘nourish.’ usage: Where two, and no more, are involved, they may be older and younger: the older of the twins, by ten minutes, is Sam; the younger is Pamela. Where there are more than two, one may be the oldest or youngest: I have four siblings, of whom Jane is the oldest. See also former1 and latter .
