once 
BrE wʌns, AmE wəns 

A.  adverb 
① (one time) 一次 yī cì to hit [something] once 击打某物一下 once only or only once 只有一次 just this once 仅此一次 more than once 不止一次 once again or more 再一次 once a week/year 一周/一年一次 once in a lifetime 一生一次 once or twice 一两次 not or never once 从不 (every) once in a while 偶尔 once too often 侥幸难再 once and for all 最终 to try anything once 任何事都尝试一下 if I've told you once, I've told you 100 times colloquial 我已经跟你说过一百遍了 once in a blue moon 千载难逢 
② (previously) 以前 yǐqián (at one time) 曾经 céngjīng to have once done [something] 曾经做过某事 to have once been beautiful 从前很漂亮 once upon a time (in stories) 从前 once, long ago, … 很久以前… once a thief, always a thief 一朝做贼，永世为贼 once bitten, twice shy proverb 一朝被蛇咬，十年怕井绳 
③ (in family relations) to be once removed 是隔一代的亲戚 shì gé yī dài de qīnqi 
④ Mathematics 乘以一 chéngyǐ yī once two is two 一二得二 
B.  noun 一次 yī cì once is enough 一次就够了 the or this once 就这一次 he only came the once 他只来过一次 I'll let you off this once 就这一次我放过你 
C.  at once adverb phrase 
① (immediately) 立即 lìjí come at once! 马上过来！ 
② (simultaneously) 同时 tóngshí don't all/both talk at once 别全都/两人同时说 to do several things at once 同时做几件事情 to be at once funny and instructive 寓教于乐 
③ (suddenly) 突然 tūrán all at once 突然 tūrán 
④ (in one go) 一下子 yīxiàzi don't eat it all at once 别一下子吃光 
D.  conjunction 一旦 yīdàn once it is dark … 一到天黑… once out of prison … 一旦从监狱里出来… 
once 
wəns

▶adverb
1 on one occasion or for one time only: they deliver once a week. 
• (usually with negative or if) at all; on even one occasion (used for emphasis): he never once complained 
if she once got an idea in her head you'd never move it.
2 at some time in the past; formerly: He had once been an Army officer. 
▶conjunction as soon as; when: once the grapes were pressed, the juice was put into barrels. 
PHRASES
all at once
1 without warning; suddenly: all at once the noise stopped.
2 all at the same time: scared and excited all at once. at once
1 immediately: I fell asleep at once.
2 simultaneously: computers that can do many things at once. for once (or this once) on this occasion only, as an exception: He was glad that for once he had not listened.once a ——, always a —— proverb a person cannot change their fundamental nature: once a whiner, always a whiner. once again (or more) one more time.once and for all (or once for all) now and for the last time; finally.once and future denoting someone or something that is eternal, enduring, or constant. [1950s: from 
T.  
H.  White's Once and Future King (1958).] once bitten, twice shy see bite. once (or every once) in a while from time to time; occasionally. once or twice a few times. once upon a time at some time in the past (used as a conventional opening of a story). 
• formerly: once upon a time she would have been jealous, but no longer.ORIGIN Middle English ones, genitive of one. The spelling change in the 16th century was in order to retain the unvoiced sound of the final consonant.
