one 
BrE wʌn, AmE wən 

A.  determiner 
① (single) 一 yī one man one vote 一人一票 forty-one dogs 四十一条狗 one more time 再一次 one or two times 一两次 I don't like it one (little) bit 我一点都不喜欢它 to have a thousand or million and one things to do colloquial 忙得不可开交 
② (sole) 唯一的 wéiyī de the one person who can help 唯一可以帮忙的人 the one thing I can't stand 我唯一不能容忍的事情 the one and only … 绝无仅有的… she's one (hell of a) fine artist AmE colloquial 她是一位高超的艺术家 
③ (same) 同样的 tóngyàng de in one direction 朝同一方向 at one and the same time 与此同时 to be one and the same person/thing 是同一个人/同一件事 to be of one mind 看法一致 we are one in our opinion that … 我们一致认为… it's all one to me 对我来说都一样 
④ (for identification, emphasis) 某一 mǒu yī one day (in stories) 有一天 one of these days 日后 at one time or another (past) 曾经 for one thing, he's old; for another, he's ugly 首先，他老了；其次，他很丑 for one reason or another 因种种理由 one thing and another colloquial 这样那样的事 one Simon Richard 一个叫西蒙理查德的 
B.  noun 
① (number, quantity) 一 yī one plus two equals three 1加2等于3 in December nineteen hundred and one 在1901年12月 we live at (number) one, Victoria Road 我们住在维多利亚路1号 her phone number is two six double one 她的电话号码是2611 one at a time 一次一个 one by one 逐个地 in ones and twos 三三两两地 one or two figurative 一两个 from day one 从一开始 in more ways than one 在很多方面 all for one and one for all 人人为我，我为人人 when you've read one you've read them all 它们千篇一律，读起来都一样 to have had one too many colloquial 酒喝多了 to go one better than [somebody] 胜人一筹 
② figurative (single entity) 一体 yītǐ to be one 统一 as one 一齐 to be at one with [somebody]/[something] 与某人/某物和谐一致 to become/be made one 结婚 in one 集于一体 a TV and DVD-player in one 电视和DVD一体机 to be [something] and [something] all in one or rolled into one 某物和某物集于一身 
③ (age) 1岁
1 suì when he was one 他一岁大的时候 
④ (in time) 1点钟
1 diǎn zhōng at one (o'clock) 在1点 
⑤ (dominoes, dice) 一点 yīdiǎn to throw a one 掷出一点 
⑥ (stitch) 一针 yī zhēn knit one, purl one 一平针，一反针 
⑦ colloquial (one try) 一下子 yīxiàzi to get [something] in one 立即明白某事 to drink it down in one 一口气喝下去 
C.  adjective 
① (as quantity) 一的 yī de one cat 1只猫 one book 1本书 one week 1周 
② (in age) 1岁的
1 suì de he's nearly one 他快1岁了 our house is only one year old 我们的房子才造了1年 
③ (in series) 第一的 dì-yī de number one 1号 
D.  pronoun 
① (indefinite, part of group) 之一 zhī yī to be one of …; 是…之一 every one of … …中的每一个 she's one of my best customers 她是我最好的顾客之一 one or another or the other 其中的某一个 one and all 全体 one was grey, and the other was pink 一个是灰色，另一个是粉红色 one after another or the other 一个接一个地 
② (identifying) [特指的] 一个 yī gè which one? 哪一个？ the pink one 粉红色的那个 the ones on the table 桌上的那些 
③ (replacing noun) [用于代替名词]my new car is faster than the old one 我的新车比旧车跑得快 her mood changed to one of joy 她的情绪变得喜悦 
④ (specific person) …的人 … de rén her loved ones 她所爱的人 the one on the left 左边那个人 the little ones 孩子们 to be one to do [something]; 是做某事的人 she was never one to criticize 她从不批评别人 to be one for [something]/for doing [something]; 是乐于做某事的人 to do [something] like one possessed 拼命做某事 I for one think that … 我个人认为… who disagrees? — I for one! 谁不同意？──我就是一个！ 
⑤ formal (a person) 任何人 rènhé rén it does make one think 这的确发人深省 one would like to think that … 大家会认为… one must try one's best 我们要尽力而为 
⑥ colloquial (drink) 一杯 yī bēi to have a quick one 小饮一杯 make mine a large one 给我来一大杯 
⑦ colloquial (joke) 玩笑 wánxiào did you hear the one about …? 你听过那个关于…的笑话吗？ 
⑧ colloquial (blow) 一拳 yī quán to land or sock [somebody] one 打某人一拳 
⑨ colloquial (problem) 问题 wèntí that's a tough/tricky one 那是个很难/很棘手的问题 
⑩ colloquial (advantage) 优势 yōushì to get one over (on) [somebody] 胜某人一筹 
one 
wən

▶cardinal number the lowest cardinal number; half of two; 1: there's only room for one person 
two could live as cheaply as one 
one hundred miles 
World War One 
a one-bedroom apartment. (Roman numeral: i, I) 
• a single person or thing, viewed as taking the place of a group: they would straggle home in ones and twos. 
• single; just one as opposed to any more or to none at all (used for emphasis): her one concern is to save her daughter. 
• denoting a particular item of a pair or number of items: electronics is one of his hobbies 
he put one hand over her shoulder and one around her waist 
a glass tube closed at one end. 
• denoting a particular but unspecified occasion or period: one afternoon in late October. 
• used before a name to denote a person who is not familiar or has not been previously mentioned; a certain: he worked as a clerk for one Mr. Ming. 
• informal, chiefly North American a noteworthy example of (used for emphasis): the actor was one smart-mouthed troublemaker 
he was one hell of a snappy dresser. 
• identical; the same: all types of training meet one common standard. 
• one year old. 
• one o'clock: it's half past one 
I'll be there at one. 
• informal US a one-dollar bill. 
• informal an alcoholic drink: a cool one after a day on the water. 
• informal a joke or story: the one about the chicken farmer and the spaceship. 
• a size of garment or other merchandise denoted by one. 
• a domino or dice with one spot. 
▶pronoun
1 referring to a person or thing previously mentioned or easily identified: her mood changed from one of moroseness to one of joy 
her best apron, the white one 
do you want one?
2 a person of a specified kind: you're the one who ruined her life 
Eleanor was never one to be trifled with 
my friends and loved ones. 
• a person who is remarkable or extraordinary in some way: you never saw such a one for figures.
3 [third person singular] used to refer to the speaker, or any person, as representing people in general: one must admire him for his willingness 
one gets the impression that he is ahead. 
PHRASES
at one in agreement or harmony: they were completely at one with their environment. for one used to stress that the person named holds the specified view, even if no one else does: I for one am getting a little sick of writing about it. one after another (or the other) following one another in quick succession: one after another, the buses drew up.one and all everyone: well done, one and all! one and only unique; single (used for emphasis or as a designation of a celebrity): the title of his one and only book 
the one and only Muhammad Ali. one by one separately and in succession; singly. one day see day. one-for-one 
ˌwənf(ə)rˈwən 
denoting or referring to a situation or arrangement in which one thing corresponds to or is exchanged for another: donations would be matched on a one-for-one basis with public revenues. one of a kind see kind1. one-on-one (or one-to-one) denoting or referring to a situation in which two parties come into direct contact, opposition, or correspondence: maybe we should talk to them one-on-one. one or another (or the other) denoting or referring to a particular but unspecified one out of a set of items: not all instances fall neatly into one or another of these categories.one or two informal a few: there are one or two signs worth watching for. one thing and another informal used to cover various unspecified matters, events, or tasks: what with one thing and another she hadn't had much sleep recently. the one informal a person's destined life partner: it sounds corny, but I think he's the one.ORIGIN Old English ān, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch een and German ein, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin unus. The initial w sound developed before the 15th century and was occasionally represented in the spelling; it was not accepted into standard English until the late 17th century. usage: In modern English, the use of one as a pronoun to mean ‘anyone’ or ‘me and people in general,’ as in one must try one's best, is generally restricted to formal contexts, outside which it is likely to be regarded as rather pompous or old-fashioned. In informal and spoken contexts, the normal alternative is you, as in you have to do what you can, don't you?
