only 
BrE ˈəʊnli, AmE ˈoʊnli 

A.  adverb 
① (solely) 仅仅 jǐnjǐn to be only interested in [something] 只对某事物感兴趣 we're only here for the beer 我们来这儿就是为了喝啤酒 God/goodness/heaven only knows! 天晓得！ ‘members only’ “只对会员开放” I'll only go if you go too 你去我才去 not only … but (also) …; 不但…而且… she's not only charming but also intelligent 她不仅迷人，而且很聪慧 only (…) if …; 如果…就… it's only dangerous if … 如果…就很危险 
② (merely) 只 zhǐ to be only sixteen 只有16岁 it's only that I wanted to … 我只是想… you can only do your best 你只能尽力而为 to be the boss in name only 只是名义上的老板 I was only joking 我只不过是开玩笑而已 you only have to ask 你只要开口 it's only
3 o'clock 才3点钟呢 only think of the mess! colloquial 想想看有多乱！ 
③ (as recently as) 仅在 jǐn zài only last week 就在上周 it seems like only yesterday (that …) 仿佛就在昨天（…） 
④ (in immediate past) 才 cái to do [something] only recently 最近才做过某事 only just (recently) 刚才 (barely) 差点没 to have only just arrived 刚刚到达 it's only just tolerable 勉强过得去 
⑤ (not until) 直到 zhídào to conclude only on
10 May 直到5月10日才作出决定 
⑥ (in final outcome) 只会 zhǐ huì he'll only waste it 他只会把它浪费掉 that only makes matters worse 那只会把事情弄得更糟 
⑦ (in wishes) I only wish/hope … 但愿/我唯有希望… dànyuàn/wǒ wéi yǒu xīwàng… 
⑧ (surprisingly) 不料 bùliào only to find/discover that … 不料却发现… I enquired, only to be told … 我询问了一下，结果竟被告知… 
⑨ (at the very least) 十分 shífēn it's only fair to let him explain 让他解释一下很公平 it's only natural for her to be curious 她好奇是很自然的 only too 非常 it's only too obvious that … 显而易见的是… he was only too pleased to help 他很乐于帮忙 
B.  adjectiveattributive 
① (sole) 唯一的 wéiyī de one and only 独一无二的 the only one left 仅存的一个 an only child (boy) 独子 (girl) 独女 dú nǚ the only thing is, I'm broke colloquial 问题是，我破产了 
② (best) 最佳的 zuì jiā de skiing is the only sport for me 滑雪是我最喜欢的运动 whisky is the only drink 威士忌酒是首选 
C.  conjunction 可是 kěshì you may carry it, only don't drop it 你拿着它吧，可别摔了 it's like skiing, only safer/more fun 这就像滑雪一样，不过更安全/更有趣 
only 
ˈōnlē

▶adverb
1 and no one or nothing more besides; solely or exclusively: there are only a limited number of tickets available 
only their faith sustained them. 
• no more than (implying that more was hoped for or expected); merely: deaths from heart disease have only declined by
10 percent 
she was still only in her mid-thirties. 
• no longer ago than: genes that were discovered only last year. 
• not until: a final report reached him only on January 15.
2 [with infinitive] with the negative or unfortunate result that: she turned into the parking car, only to find her way blocked. 
• [with modal] inevitably, although unfortunate or undesirable: if banks canceled the debts, these countries would only borrow more 
rebellion will only bring more unhappiness. 
▶adjective [attributive] alone of its or their kind; single or solitary: the only medal we had ever won 
he was an only child. 
• alone deserving consideration: it's simply the only place to be seen these days. 
▶conjunction informal except that; but for the fact that: he is still a young man, only he seems older because of his careworn expression. 
PHRASES
only just by a very small margin; almost not: the building survived the earthquake, but only just. 
• very recently: I'd only just arrived back from Paris. only too —— used to emphasize that something is the case to an extreme or regrettable extent: you should be only too glad to be rid of him 
they found that the rumor was only too true.ORIGIN Old English ānlic (adjective) (see one, -ly1) . usage: In normal, everyday English, the tendency is to place only as early as possible in the sentence, generally just before the verb, and the result is rarely ambiguous. Misunderstandings are possible, however, and grammarians have debated the matter for more than two hundred years. Advice varies, but in general, ambiguity is less likely if only is placed as close as is naturally possible to the word(s) to be modified or emphasized. I saw her only once stresses the single instance; I only saw her once leaves it unclear whether she was heard (or otherwise perceived) in addition to being seen.
