open 
BrE ˈəʊp(ə)n, AmE ˈoʊpən 
A. adjective 
① (not closed) 开着的 kāizhe de ‹window, drawer, tin›; 翻开的 fānkāi de ‹book, newspaper›; 张开的 zhāngkāi de ‹mouth, wings›; 敞开的 chǎngkāi de ‹collar, jacket, container, envelope›to leave the door open a crack 把门留一条缝 I can't get the door open 我打不开门 the door flew open 门突然开了 the bag burst open 袋子一下子破了 his eyes are open 他的眼睛睁着 with one's eyes open, with open eyes figurative 心知肚明地 the flowers aren't open yet 花还未开 your fly is or flies are open 你的裤子拉链开了 to welcome [somebody] with open arms figurative 热情欢迎某人 with an open hand figurative 慷慨大方地 
② predicative (admitting customers) 开门的 kāimén de ‹shop›(admitting visitors) 开放的 kāifàng de ‹museum›the bank won't be open until
9 银行9点才开门 to be open to the public 向公众开放 the new road won't be open until 2018 这条新建的道路要到2018年才通车 the meeting is now open 会议现在向公众开放 
③ usually predicative (not blocked) 畅通的 chàngtōng de to be open «channel, pass» 畅通无阻 «bowels, pores» 通畅 tōngchàng to keep the lines of communication open 保持通信线路畅通 an open goal Sport 空门进球 to be open to [something]/[somebody]; 某物/某人可通行 to be open to traffic/boats 车辆/船只可通行 the road to riches lay open before him 他面前通往财富的道路畅通无阻 
④ (not covered) 敞篷的 chǎngpéng de ‹vehicle, carriage›; 无遮盖的 wúzhēgài de ‹sewer, tomb›an open boat 敞舱船 an open fire/drain 明火/排水明沟 
⑤ (not enclosed) 开阔的 kāikuò de ‹sky, view›the open air 户外 hùwài open country 空旷的田野 the open sea 开阔的海域 (wide) open spaces （开阔的）空旷地带 
⑥ (exposed) 暴露的 bàolù de ‹place, coastline›(conspicuous) 显眼的 xiǎnyǎn de ‹place›an open field 无遮挡的田地 to be open to [something]; 易受某物影响 the room is open to the air 房间透气性很好 open to the elements 易受风霜雪雨侵袭的 to lay or leave oneself open to attack/criticism 使自己处于易受攻击/批评的地位 this incident has left his honesty open to doubt or question 这件事情使大家开始怀疑他的诚信 
⑦ (receptive) 开明的 kāimíng de to have an open mind 思想开明 to keep an open mind (about [something]) （对某事）不怀成见 to be open to [something]; 愿意考虑 ‹offers, suggestions›to be open to persuasion 愿意听从劝说 to be open to new/good ideas 能接受新观念/好主意 
⑧ predicative (available) 空缺的 kòngquē de ‹position›there's a slot open in July 七月有一个空当 to keep a job open for [somebody] 给某人留着一份工作 to be open to [somebody]; «job, membership» 对某人开放 the competition is open to everybody 人人都可参赛 these are the classes that are open to you 这些是你可以选择的课程 
⑨ (unrestricted) 无限制的 wúxiànzhì de ‹access, session, invitation›an open contest or competition 公开赛 
⑩ (candid) 坦率的 tǎnshuài de ‹person, attitude, expression›; 坦诚的 tǎnchéng de ‹discussion, debate›to be open with [somebody] (about [something]); （在某事上）对某人坦诚 with an open heart (frankly) 坦诚地 (kindly) 和善地 
⑪ (undecided) 待定的 dài dìng de ‹decision, date›an open question 悬而未决的问题 the race is still wide open 竞赛仍然胜负未定 open ticket/return 不定期机票/回程不定的往返票 
⑫ (blatant) 公然的 gōngrán de ‹hostility, contempt›open revolt or rebellion 公然的反叛 an open scandal 人尽皆知的丑闻 
⑬ (with spaces) 稀疏的 xīshū de ‹material, mesh›
⑭ Linguistics an open vowel 开元音 kāiyuányīn an open syllable 开音节 kāiyīnjié 
⑮ Music an open string 空弦 kōngxián 
B.  transitive verb 
① (cause not to be closed) 打开 dǎkāi ‹door, safe, book, box, jar›to open one's mouth/eyes 张开嘴巴/睁开眼睛 to open an envelope/a parcel 拆开信封/包裹 to open a vein/wound 切开静脉/伤口 to open a border 开放边境 the wind opened the gate 风把大门吹开了 to open [somebody's] eyes to [something] figurative 使某人认清某事 to open the door to [something] figurative 为某事敞开大门 to open one's mind to [something] 愿意考虑某事 to open one's heart to [somebody] 向某人倾诉心声 
② (spread out) 伸开 shēnkāi ‹legs, hand›; 展开 zhǎnkāi ‹map, wings, fan›to open a newspaper/an umbrella 翻开报纸/撑开雨伞 open the book at page
2 把书翻到第2页 
③ (cut, create) 开出 kāichū ‹hole, passage›; figurative 开辟 kāipì ‹route, path, market›
④ (begin) 开始 kāishǐ to open a meeting/show 开始开会/演出 to open a case Law 开始审案 who'll open the bidding? 谁首先出价？ to open the score or scoring Sport 开局得分 to open the batting (in cricket) 开球 
⑤ (inaugurate) 为…揭幕 wèi… jiēmù ‹fête, exhibition›; 宣布启用 xuānbù qǐyòng ‹factory, road›to open a new session of parliament 宣布新一届议会召开 
⑥ (set up) 开办 kāibàn ‹business, factory›; 开设 kāishè ‹branch, office›
⑦ Finance 开立 kāilì ‹account›
⑧ Computing 打开 dǎkāi ‹file, document›
C.  intransitive verb 
① (become open) «door, container, lid» 打开 dǎkāi ; «eyes» 睁开 zhēngkāi ; «mouth, wings» 张开 zhāngkāi when the flowers open in spring 春天花开时 to open wide 大开着 the skies or heavens opened figurative 大雨突降 
② to open into [something] (give access to) «door, window» 通往 tōngwǎng ‹passage, yard›my bedroom opens into the sitting room 我的卧室通起居室 to open on to [something]; «door, room» 朝向 cháoxiàng ‹road, area›a window opening on to the garden 朝向花园的窗户 cháoxiàng huāyuán de chuānghu 
③ literal, figurative (appear) «gap, breach» 出现 chūxiàn cracks opened in the ice 冰面上出现了裂缝 a split has opened in the party 党内出现了分裂 
④ (admit customers, visitors) «shop, museum» 开门 kāimén (for first time) «business, branch» 开业 kāiyè ; «fête» 开幕 kāimù to open at nine o'clock every day 每天9点开始营业 there's a new supermarket opening in the High Street 商业大街上一家新超市开业了 the exhibition opens on
6 January 展览会1月6日开幕 
⑤ Theatre, Cinema «play» 上演 shàngyǎn ; «film» 上映 shàngyìng 
⑥ (begin) «conference, trial» 开始 kāishǐ to open with [something]; 以某事开始 shares opened at 123p 股票以123便士开盘 we always open with a prayer 我们总是先祈祷 
⑦ (speak, play first) 起头 qǐtóu to open for [something]/[somebody]; 代表某事物/某人率先开始 to open for the defence Law 由被告方开始发言 to open for the government Politics 率先代表政府发言 to open for England Sport 为英格兰队开球 
D.  noun 
① the open (outside) 户外 hùwài to spend the night in the open 露天过夜 lùtiān guòyè 
② the open (exposed position) 明处 míngchù to come out into the open «animal» 从暗处出来 cóng ànchù chūlai to be out in the open figurative 公开 gōngkāi to bring [something] out into the open figurative 揭开某事物的真面目 jiēkāi mǒu shìwù de zhēnmiànmù PHRASAL VERBS open out A. intransitive verb 
① (widen) «path, land» 变开阔 biàn kāikuò ; «passage, tunnel» 变宽 biàn kuān to open out into [something]; 变宽成为某物 the stream opened out into a pool 小溪逐渐变宽，汇入一个池塘 
② (unfold) «fan, flower, wings» 展开 zhǎnkāi the scroll opens out into a painting 卷轴展开成一幅画 
B.  transitive verb[open something out, open out something] 展开 zhǎnkāi ‹fan, wings, map›open up A. intransitive verb 
① (unlock door) 开门 kāimén to open up for [somebody] 给某人开门 
② (flower) «flower, bud» 开放 kāifàng 
③ (get wider) «crack, crevice» 变宽 biàn kuān a gap has opened up between A and B Sport A和B之间的距离拉开了 a split has opened up in the opposition ranks 对立派别之间的分歧变大了 
④ (start up) «shop» 开门 kāimén ; «business, branch» 营业 yíngyè ; «gallery, museum» 开放 kāifàng 
⑤ (develop) «business, market» 发展 fāzhǎn ; «opportunities, possibilities» 出现 chūxiàn a new phase was opening up 一个新阶段正在呈现 
⑥ Military «soldier, army» 开火 kāihuǒ to open up with [something]; 用…开火 ‹rifles, machine guns›
⑦ (speak freely) «person» 畅所欲言 chàng suǒ yù yán 
B.  transitive verb[open something up, open up something] 
① (make open) 拆开 chāikāi ‹envelope›; 打开 dǎkāi ‹box, book›; 疏通 shūtōng ‹blocked pipe›to open up a wound 使伤口裂开 
② (make wider) 使…变宽 shǐ… biàn kuān ‹channel, gap, crack, crevice›to open up a lead «athlete, team» 拉开一段距离而领先 
③ (unlock) 开…的门 kāi… de mén ‹shop, building›; 打开 dǎkāi ‹safe›
④ (start up) 开办 kāibàn ‹business›; 开设 kāishè ‹branch›to open up an office in … 在…设立办事处 
⑤ (make accessible) 开放 kāifàng ‹area, country›; 开辟 kāipì ‹route›; 开拓 kāituò ‹opportunities›to open up the hinterland to trade 开放内陆地区的贸易 to open up new horizons for [somebody] 为某人开拓新视野 
⑥ Auto colloquial 使…加速 shǐ… jiāsù ‹engine›
C.  reflexive verb to open oneself up; 放开 fàngkāi to open oneself up to [somebody]/[something]; 愿意接纳某人/某事物 yuànyì jiēnà mǒu rén/mǒu shìwù the country has recently opened itself up to foreign investment 该国最近开放了外国投资 to open oneself up to new ideas 愿意考虑新观念 yuànyì kǎolǜ xīn guānniàn 
open 
▶adjective
1 the door's open: not shut, not closed, unlocked, unbolted, unlatched, off the latch, unfastened, unsecured; ajar, gaping, wide open, yawning. ANTONYMS closed, shut.
2 a blue silk shirt, open at the neck: unfastened, not done up, undone, loose; unbuttoned, unzipped, unbuckled, untied, unlaced.
3 the main roads are open: clear, passable, navigable, unblocked, unobstructed. ANTONYMS blocked, impassable.
4 open countryside 
open spaces: unenclosed, rolling, sweeping, extensive, wide open, unfenced, exposed, unsheltered; spacious, airy, uncrowded, uncluttered; undeveloped, unbuilt-up. ANTONYMS enclosed, developed.
5 a map was open beside him: spread out, unfolded, unfurled, unrolled; extended, stretched out. ANTONYMS closed (up), folded.
6 the bank wasn't open: open for business, open to the public. ANTONYMS closed.
7 the position is still open: available, vacant, free, unfilled; informal up for grabs. ANTONYMS unavailable, filled.
8 the system is open to abuse: vulnerable to, subject to, susceptible to, liable to, exposed to, an easy target for, at risk of, permitting of. ANTONYMS immune.
9 she was open about her feelings: frank, candid, honest, forthcoming, communicative, forthright, direct, unreserved, plain-spoken, outspoken, straightforward, blunt, not afraid to call a spade a spade; informal upfront; archaic free-spoken. ANTONYMS secretive, withdrawn.
10 open hostility: overt, obvious, patent, manifest, palpable, conspicuous, plain, undisguised, unconcealed, clear, apparent, evident; blatant, flagrant, barefaced, brazen. ANTONYMS concealed.
11 the case is still open: unresolved, undecided, unsettled, yet to be settled, up in the air; open to debate, open for discussion, arguable, debatable, moot. ANTONYMS resolved, concluded.
12 an open mind: impartial, unbiased, unprejudiced, objective, disinterested, nonpartisan, nondiscriminatory, neutral, dispassionate, detached. ANTONYMS biased, one-sided.
13 I'm open to suggestions: receptive, amenable, willing to listen, ready to listen, responsive.
14 what other options are open to us? available, accessible, on hand, obtainable.
15 an open meeting: public, general, unrestricted, nonexclusive, nonrestrictive. ANTONYMS private.
▶verb
1 she opened the front door: unfasten, unlatch, unlock, unbolt, unbar; throw wide. ANTONYMS close, shut.
2 Katherine opened the parcel: unwrap, undo, untie, unseal. ANTONYMS wrap, seal.
3 shall I open another bottle? uncork, broach, crack (open). ANTONYMS seal, cork.
4 Adam opened the map: spread out, unfold, unfurl, unroll, straighten out; extend, stretch out. ANTONYMS close, fold up.
5 he opened his heart to her: reveal, uncover, expose, lay bare, bare, pour out, disclose, divulge.
6 we're hoping to open next month: open for business, start trading, set up shop; informal hang out one's shingle.
7 Valerie opened the meeting: begin, start, commence, initiate, set in motion, launch, get going, get underway, get the ball rolling, get off the ground; inaugurate; informal kick off, get the show on the road. ANTONYMS conclude, end.
8 the lounge opens on to a balcony: give access to, lead to, be connected to, communicate with; face, overlook, command a view of.
WORD LINKS
open agoraphobia irrational fear of open or public placesWord Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.
