opposite 
BrE ˈɒpəzɪt, ˈɒpəsɪt, AmE ˈɑpəzət 
A. noun 
① (reverse) 对立面 duìlìmiàn the very or exact opposite (of [something]) （某事物的）截然对立面 quite or just the opposite 恰恰相反 
② (sb. different) 相对立的人 xiāng duìlì de rén (sth. different) 相反的事物 xiāngfǎn de shìwù black and white are opposites 黑与白是对立的 opposites attract 相异相吸 
B.  adjective 
① attributive (facing) 对面的 duìmiàn de ‹bank, wall›the opposite side of the road 道路的对面 see illustration on the opposite page 见对面页上的插图 opposite angles Mathematics 对角 
② attributive (most distant) 另一边的 lìng yībiān de ‹way, pole›to sit at opposite ends of the table 坐在桌子的两端 the opposite extreme 另一个极端 
③ (reverse) 相反的 xiāngfǎn de ‹meaning, direction›(opposing) 对立的 duìlì de ‹attitude, camp›to adopt or take up the opposite stance 采取相反的立场 to take the opposite view 持相反的观点 to have or produce the opposite effect 效果适得其反 the opposite sex 异性 of the opposite sex 异性的 
C.  adverb 在对面 zài duìmiàn ‹stand, be›to live directly opposite 住在正对面 to go into the shop opposite 进入对面的商店 see opposite for details 详情见对页 
D.  preposition 
① (facing) 在…对面 zài… duìmiàn ‹building, park›to sit down opposite [somebody] 在某人对面坐下来 
② Cinema, Theatre 与…合演 yǔ… héyǎn to play or appear opposite [somebody] 与某人联袂演出 to play opposite [somebody] Sport 与某人联手比赛 to play opposite one another in a match 联手比赛 
opposite 
▶adjective
1 the opposite page: facing, opposing, reverse.
2 opposite views: conflicting, contrasting, incompatible, irreconcilable, antithetical, contradictory, clashing, contrary, at variance, at odds, different, differing, divergent, dissimilar, unalike, disagreeing, opposed, opposing, poles apart, polar. ANTONYMS similar, same, identical.
3 opposite sides in a war: rival, opposing, enemy. ANTONYMS same.
▶preposition they sit opposite one another: facing, face to face with, across from; informal eyeball to eyeball with; archaic fronting.
▶noun the opposite was also true: reverse, converse, antithesis, contrary, inverse, obverse, antipode; the other side of the coin; informal flip side.REFLECTIONS See sanction Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD opposite, antithetical, contradictory,contrary, reverse All of these adjectives are usually applied to abstractions and are used to describe ideas, statements, qualities, forces, etc., that are so far apart as to seem irreconcilable. Opposite refers to ideas or things that are symmetrically opposed in position, direction, or character—in other words, that are set against each other in such a way that the contrast or conflict between them is highlighted (the two groups gathered on opposite sides of the street). Contradictory goes a little further, implying that if one of two opposing statements, propositions, or principles is true, the other must be false (he assured us the fee would be under $500, but his partner gave us contradictory information). Two contradictory elements are mutually exclusive; for example, alive and dead are contradictory terms because logically they cannot be applied to the same thing. Antithetical implies that the two things being contrasted are diametrically opposed—as far apart or as different from each other as is possible (they debated the antithetical theories of creationism and evolution). Contrary adds connotations of conflict or antagonism (their discussion was hindered by his contrary remarks). Reverse applies to that which moves or faces in the opposite direction (he scribbled something on the reverse side of her business card).These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
