other 
BrE ˈʌðə, AmE ˈəðər 

A.  adjectiveattributive 
① (remaining, additional) 其他的 qítā de the other one 另一个 lìng yī gè the other children 其他孩子 other possibilities 其他的可能 my other sister 我另一个姐姐 at all other times 在其他任何时间 both his other brothers 他的另外两个兄弟 to make one other suggestion 再提一个建议 to have only one other shirt 只有一件多余的衬衫 a plant found in, among other places, Japan 一种生长在日本等地的植物 the other world 来世 
② (different) 别的 bié de some other child 某个别的孩子 other people 别人 to go some other time/day 另找时间去/改天去 in other words 换句话说 the other woman (mistress) 别的女人 
③ (opposite) 另一边的 lìng yībiān de on the other side of the street 在街对面 at the other end of … 在…的另一端 
④ (alternative) the other …; 另一种… lìng yī zhǒng… he found me, not the other way around 他找到了我，而不是我找到了他 
⑤ (recent) the other day/week 那天/那周 nà tiān/nà zhōu 
⑥ (alternate) every other …; 每隔一… měi gé yī… every other week/year 每隔一周/一年 měi gé yī zhōu/yī nián every other word was a swear word 动辄张口骂人 dòngzhé zhāngkǒu màrén 
B.  pronoun 
① (the) others plural (the rest, different ones) 其他的 qítā de to be quicker than (any of) the others 比（任何）其他的都快 bǐ(rènhé)qítā de dōu kuài he doesn't like upsetting others 他不喜欢烦扰别人 a family like many others 一个很平常的家庭 X, Y, and others X、Y等等 X 、 Y děngděng Anna, among others, has been chosen 安娜等人入选了 Ānnà děng rén rùxuǎn le show me some others 再给我看几个 zài gěi wǒ kàn jǐ gè 
② (alternate, additional one) the other; 另一个 lìng yī gè to raise first one hand and then the other 先举起一只手，然后再举起另一只 both of them distrust the other 他俩相互不信任 tāliǎ xiānghù bù xìnrèn one after the other 交替地 jiāotì de I love you and no other 我只爱你一个人 wǒ zhǐ ài nǐ yī gè rén one or other 其中一个 qízhōng yī gè one or other of them will phone 他们中有人会打电话的 a bit of the other BrE colloquial 男女之事 nánnǚ zhī shì 
③ (expressing uncertainty) or other; 或其他 huò qítā somebody or other from head office 总部来的某个人 zǒngbù lái de mǒu gè rén for some reason or other 由于某种原因 yóuyú mǒu zhǒng yuányīn he's called Bob something or other 他名叫鲍勃什么的 
④ (opposite) the other; (side) 对面 duìmiàn (end) 另一端 lìng yī duān (direction) 反方向 fǎnfāngxiàng I went one way, and they went the other 我走一条路，他们走另一条路 
C.  other than preposition phrase 
① (except) 除…之外 chú… zhī wài to have no choice other than to … 别无选择，只能… 
② (anything/anyone but) he could scarcely be other than relieved 他不能不放心了 tā bù néng bù fàngxīn le it's none other than the Pope! 正是教皇本人！ zhèng shì jiàohuáng běnrén ！ 
other 
ˈəT͟Hər

▶adjective & pronoun
1 used to refer to a person or thing that is different or distinct from one already mentioned or known about: [as adjective] : stick the camera on a tripod or some other means of support 
other people found her difficult 
[as pronoun] : a language unrelated to any other. 
• the alternative of two: [as adjective] : the other side of the page 
[as pronoun] : flinging up first one arm and then the other 
one or the other of them is bound to be a liar. 
• those remaining in a group; those not already mentioned: [as adjective] : they took the other three away in an ambulance 
[as pronoun] : Fred set off and the others followed.
2 further; additional: [as adjective] : one other word of advice 
[as pronoun] : reporting three stories and rewriting three others.
3 (the Other) [pronoun] Philosophy & Sociology that which is distinct from, different from, or opposite to something or oneself. 
▶verb [with object] view or treat (a person or group of people) as intrinsically different from and alien to oneself: a critique of the ways in which the elderly are othered by society. 
PHRASES
how the other half lives used to allude to the way of life of a different group in society, especially a wealthier one. no other archaic nothing else: we can do no other. other than [with negative or in questions] apart from; except: he claims not to own anything other than his home. 
• differently or different from; otherwise than: there is no suggestion that we are to take this other than literally. on the other hand see hand. the other day (or night, week, etc.) a few days (or nights, weeks, etc.) ago.someone (or something or somehow, etc.) or other some unspecified or unknown person, thing, manner, etc. (used to express vagueness or uncertainty): they were protesting about something or other.ORIGIN Old English ōther, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch and German ander, from an Indo-European root meaning ‘different.’
