out 
BrE aʊt, AmE aʊt 

A.  adverb 
① (outside) 在外面 standing out in the rain 站在外面的雨中 out there/here 在外面那边/这边 to be out and about 外出走动 to be out on bail 被保释出狱 
② (for social activity) 外出 to invite [somebody] out 邀请某人外出 a night out 外出的一晚上 a day out at the seaside 去海边的一天 
③ (from within, from source, into view) 出来 to go or walk out 走出去 to find one's way out 找到出去的路 get out! 滚出去！ ‘Out’ “出口” I want out! colloquial 我要解脱！ to stare out at [something] 向外凝视某物 out from under [something]; 从某物下面出来 to take a cushion out from under [somebody's] head 从某人的头下抽出垫子 to draw out £500 from the bank 从银行取出500英镑 to be/come out; «sun, stars» 出现 to stick one's tongue out 伸出舌头 
④ (away, at a distance) 离开 two days out from port/camp 离开港口/营地的两天 to live out in the country 住到乡下 to be out at sea 出海 when he was out in the Middle East 当他远在中东时 a cold front out in the Atlantic 大西洋上的一股冷锋 to score from 70 metres out Sport 在距球门70米远处射门得分 
⑤ (not present) to be out; 不在 to be/go out shopping 外出/出门购物 to be out (on loan) 借出去 to be/come out (on strike) 罢工 the jury was still out 陪审团还在商议 
⑥ (published, made public) 公开 to be out; «book» 出版 «film, CD» 发行 «results, news» 公布 Law «warrant» 发出 his secret is out 他的秘密已经泄露 truth will out proverb 真相会水落石出的 
⑦ (in bloom) to be out; «flower» 开放 the trees were out (in leaf) 树发芽了 (in blossom) 树开花了 
⑧ (openly homosexual) to be out; 出柜 ［指公开同性恋身份］
⑨ (removed) 除掉 to get the marks out 除掉痕迹 to have one's stitches out 拆线 
⑩ (extinguished) to be out; «fire» 熄灭 lights out at 10.30 p.m. 晚上10点半熄灯 
⑪ (over) 结束 to be out; «year, season» 结束 «school» 放假 before the week's out 在本周内 
⑫ colloquial (unfashionable) to be out; «style, garment» 过时 
⑬ colloquial (not possible) to be out; «option, idea» 不可取 
⑭ Games, Sport to be out; «ball, shot» 出界 «player» 出局 
⑮ Politics to be out; «party, person» 下台 Tories out! 保守党下台！ 
⑯ dated (into society) to be/come out; «debutante» 初次参加社交活动 
⑰ (so as to displace) 脱离 to pull a tooth out 拔牙 to put one's shoulder out 肩关节脱臼 
⑱ (aloud) 大声地 to cry/scream out 大声呼喊/尖叫 to speak out (about [something]) 大声说（某事物） to say [something] right or straight out 直截了当地说某事物 out with it! colloquial 说出来啊！ 
⑲ (completely) 完全地 to wipe out the bath 擦干净浴缸 
⑳ colloquial (in search of) to be out to do [something]/for [something]; 试图做某事/得到某物 to be out for revenge 想要报复 ㉑ = over
1 
B. 
⑫ ㉒ BrE (incorrect) to be out; 出错 chūcuò to be out in one's calculations 计算有误 jìsuàn yǒu wù to be
3 degrees out, to be out by
3 degrees 有3度的偏差 yǒu
3 dù de piānchā my watch is two minutes out 我的手表差了两分钟 ㉓ BrE colloquial (ever) he's the kindest/stupidest person out 他是个极其善良/愚蠢透顶的人 tā shì gè jíqí shànliáng/yúchǔn tòudǐng de rén ㉔ colloquial (worn through) to be out at the elbows/knees «garment» 肘部/膝盖穿破了 zhǒubù/xīgài chuān pò le 
B.  preposition colloquial 从…里出来 cóng… li chūlai to run out the door 跑出门外 
C.  an out noun colloquial 出路 chūlù to leave [somebody] an out 给某人留退路 to look for an out 找借口 
D.  transitive verb colloquial 使…出柜 shǐ… chū guì ‹person›
E.  out of preposition phrase 
① (outwards from) 从…里出来 cóng… li chūlai to go out of the house 走出房子 to come out of hospital/prison 出院/出狱 to look out of the window 向窗外看 I'm out of here! colloquial 我走了！ get out of my/the way! 让开！ 
② (removed from) 从…里拿出来 cóng… li ná chūlai to tear a page out of a book 从书上撕下一页 to take money out of the bank 从银行取钱 
③ (obtained from, part of) 出自 chūzì to drink beer out of the bottle 对着瓶口喝啤酒 to pay for [something] out of one's savings 用积蓄支付某物 what do I get out of it? colloquial 我从中能得到什么？ one chapter out of a novel 小说中的一章 like something out of a nightmare 犹如一场噩梦 
④ (beyond limit of) 超出 chāochū out of reach/sight 在手够不到的地方/在视线范围之外 several miles out of London 离伦敦几英里远 to live out of town 住在城外 
⑤ (sheltering from) 避开 bìkāi ‹weather, heat›to come in out of the rain/sun 进来躲雨/躲阴凉 
⑥ (not in condition of) 不在…状态 bùzài… zhuàngtài to be out of control/danger 失去控制/脱离危险 it's out of the question 这不可能 to be out of it colloquial (unconscious) 不省人事 (muddled) 昏头昏脑 to feel/look out of it colloquial 感到格格不入/看上去像局外人 to grow out of it 慢慢放弃习惯 get out (of it)! colloquial 胡说！ 
⑦ (made from) to be made out of [something]; 由…制成 yóu… zhìchéng ‹wood, metal›a statue made out of bronze 青铜雕像 qīngtóng diāoxiàng 
⑧ (due to) 由于 yóuyú ‹malice, respect›
⑨ (lacking) 缺乏 quēfá to be out of work/luck 失业/不走运 
⑩ (excluded from) to be out of [something] 被排除在…之外 bèi páichú zài… zhī wài ‹market, organization›
⑪ (expressing ratio) one out of (every) five students （每）五个学生中的一个 
⑫ Riding (foaled by) …所生 … suǒ shēng Rapido out of Lightning “闪电”所生的“飞驰” 
out 
out

▶adverb
1 moving or appearing to move away from a particular place, especially one that is enclosed or hidden: he walked out into the street 
watch the stars come out. 
• situated or operating in the open air, not in buildings: the search-and-rescue team have been out looking for you. 
• no longer detained in custody or in jail: they would be out on bail in no time.
2 situated far or at a particular distance from somewhere: an old farmhouse right out in the middle of nowhere 
they lived eight miles out of town 
the team had put on a marvelous display out in Georgia. 
• to sea, away from the land: the fleet put out from Cyprus. 
• (of the tide) falling or at its lowest level: the tide was going out.
3 away from home: he's gone out. 
• in a public place for purposes of pleasure or entertainment: an evening out at a restaurant.
4 indicating a specified distance away from the goal line or finishing line: he scored from 70 meters out.
5 so as to be revealed or known: find out what you can. 
• aloud; so as to be heard: Miss Beard cried out in horror.
6 at or to an end: the romance fizzled out. 
• so as to be finished or complete: I'll leave them to fight it out 
I typed out the poem. 
• (in various other completive uses): the crowd had thinned out 
he crossed out a word.
7 (of a light or fire) so as to be extinguished or no longer burning: at ten o'clock the lights went out. 
• (of a stain or mark) no longer visible; removed: try to get the stain out.
8 (of a party, politician, etc.) not in office.
9 (of a jury) considering its verdict in secrecy. 
▶preposition through to the outside: he ran out the door. 
▶adjective [predicative]
1 not at home or at one's place of work: if he called, she'd pretend to be out.
2 revealed or made public: the secret was soon out. 
• (of a flower) in bloom; open. 
• published: the book should be out before the end of the month. 
• informal in existence or in use: it works as well as any system that's out. 
• not concealing one's homosexuality: I had been out since I was seventeen.
3 no longer alight; extinguished: the fire was nearly out.
4 at an end: school was out for the summer. 
• informal no longer in fashion: life in the fast lane is out.
5 not possible or worth considering: a trip to the seaside is out.
6 in a state of unconsciousness. 
• Boxing unable to rise before the count of ten.
7 mistaken; in error: he was slightly out in his calculations.
8 (of the ball in tennis and similar games) outside the designated playing area.
9 Baseball & Cricket no longer batting or on base, having had one's turn ended by the team in the field: the Yankees are out in the ninth 
Johnson was out at second. 
▶noun
1 informal a way of escaping from a problem or dilemma: he was desperately looking for an out.
2 Baseball an act of putting a player out.
3 (the outs) the political party or politicians not in office. 
▶verb
1 [no object] come or go out; emerge: the truth will out.
2 [with object] informal reveal the homosexuality of (a prominent person). 
PHRASES
on the outs in disagreement or dispute: on the outs with established political trends.out and about (of a person, especially after inactivity) engaging in normal activity. out for intent on having: he was out for a good time. out of 
ˈout əv 

1 indicating the source or derivation of something; from: a bench fashioned out of a fallen tree trunk 
you should not expect too much out of life. 
• having (the thing mentioned) as a motivation: she did it out of spite. 
• indicating the dam of a pedigree animal, especially a horse.
2 from among (a number): nine times out of ten.
3 not having (a particular thing): they had run out of cash. out of it informal
1 not included; rejected: I hate feeling out of it.
2 unaware of what is happening as a result of being uninformed. 
• unable to think or react properly as a result of being drowsy. out to keenly striving to: they were out to impress. out with an exhortation to expel or dismiss (an unwanted person or thing). out with it say what you are thinking.ORIGIN Old English ūt (adverb), ūtian (verb), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch uit and German aus . usage: The use of out as a preposition (rather than the standard prepositional phrase out of), as in he threw it out the window, is common in informal contexts, and is standard in American, Australian, and New Zealand English. Traditionalists do not accept it as part of standard British English, however.
