outside 
AmE ˈaʊtsaɪd 

A.  noun 
① (external space) 外面 wàimiàn the outside (of [something]); （某物的）外面 to open from the outside 从外面打开 on the outside (of [something]); 在（某物的）外面 to be on the outside looking in figurative 被排除在外 from the outside figurative 客观地看 from the outside, I'd say … 客观地说，我认为… 
② (external surface) 外表 wàibiǎo the outsides of the windows 窗户的外部 a coat with fur on the outside 翻毛外套 on the outside (appearance) 外表上 on the outside she looked calm 她貌似镇定 
③ (outer world) 外界 wàijiè to bring in an expert from (the) outside 外聘一名专家 to smuggle [something] in from (the) outside 将某物从外面私带进来 
④ Auto (of road) 外侧 wàicè on the outside (of [something]); 在（某物的）外侧 to pass a car on the outside 从外侧超车 
⑤ Sport (of curve) the outside; 外圈 wàiquān to overtake [somebody] on the outside (of the bend) 在（弯道）外圈超过某人 zài(wāndào)wàiquān chāoguò mǒu rén 
⑥ (maximum) at the outside; 至多 zhìduō to cost £50 at the outside 顶多要花50英镑 
B.  adjectiveattributive 
① (outdoor) 户外的 hùwài de ‹temperature, work›
② (exterior) 外部的 wàibù de the outside wrapping/measurements 外包装/外部尺寸 
③ (outer) 外侧的 wàicè de ‹track›; 靠走道的 kào zǒudào de ‹seat›the outside lane/rear wheel Auto 外车道/外侧后轮 the outside edge of [something] 某物的外侧边 
④ Telecommunications an outside line/call 外线/外线电话 wàixiàn/wàixiàn diànhuà 
⑤ BrE Radio, Television an outside broadcasting van/unit 实况转播车/组 shíkuàng zhuǎnbō chē/zǔ 
⑥ (maximum) 最大的 zuì dà de ‹amount›; 最高的 zuì gāo de ‹price›
⑦ (beyond usual sphere) 通常领域以外的 tōngcháng lǐngyù yǐwài de the outside world 外界 wàijiè 
⑧ (from elsewhere) 来自外部的 láizì wàibù de an outside opinion 局外人的意见 outside help/contractors 外援/外部承包商 
⑨ (slight) 微不足道的 wēi bù zú dào de an outside chance of winning 微乎其微的获胜机会 
C.  preposition 
① (not within) 在…外面 zài… wàimiàn ‹door, boundary›; 在…之外 zài… zhī wài ‹place, time, institution›to land outside the line «ball» 落在界外 sex outside marriage 婚外性行为 to go outside the garden 出花园 to wear a shirt outside one's trousers 把衬衫穿在裤子外面 
② (in front of) 在…前面 zài… qiánmian ‹building›
③ (near) 靠近 kàojìn ‹place›just outside Sheffield 就在设菲尔德附近 
④ (not included in) 不属于 bù shǔyú ‹organization, profession›public opinion outside Parliament 议会之外的舆论 
⑤ (beyond) 超过 chāoguò ‹limit, jurisdiction›to be outside the range 超出范围 it's outside her experience figurative 她没有这方面的经验 
⑥ (apart from) 除…以外 chú… yǐwài ‹person, activity›she doesn't see anyone outside her family 除了自己的家人，她谁也不见 
D.  adverb 
① (position) 在外面 zài wàimiàn (movement toward) 朝外面 cháo wàimiàn the world outside 外面的世界 scenes shot outside 在室外拍摄的场景 a coat with fur outside 翻毛外套 if you'd like to step outside … (in order to fight) 如果你想出去较量一下… 
② especially AmE outside of …; (not within) 在…的外面 zài… de wàimiàn (apart from) 除了… chúle… outside of the law 超出法律范围 chāochū fǎlǜ fànwéi 
outside 
▶noun 
ˈoutsīd 
the external side or surface of something: record the date on the outside of the file. 
• the side of a bend or curve where the edge or surface is longer in extent. 
• the side of a racetrack further from the center, where the lanes are longer. 
• the external appearance of someone or something: was he as straight as he appeared on the outside? 
• (in basketball) the area beyond the perimeter of the defense: he often set up the Lakers' plays from the outside. 
▶adjective 
ˈoutsīd 
[attributive]
1 situated on or near the exterior or external surface of something: put the outside lights on. 
• Baseball (of a pitch) passing home plate on the side of the plate away from the batter, not in the strike zone. 
• (in soccer and other sports) denoting positions nearer to the sides of the field. 
• (in basketball) taking place beyond the perimeter of the defense: he needs work on his outside shot.
2 not belonging to or coming from within a particular group: I have some outside help. 
• beyond one's own immediate personal concerns: I was able to face the outside world again.
3 highest possible; greatest; maximum: new monthly charges that, according to outside estimates, may total $8 per line. 
▶preposition & adverb 
outˈsīd 

1 situated or moving beyond the boundaries or confines of: [as preposition] : there was a boy outside the door 
[as adverb] : the dog was still barking outside 
outside, the wind was as wild as ever. 
• not being a member of (a particular group): [as preposition] : those of us outside the university. 
• (in football, soccer, and other sports) closer to the side of the field than (another player): [as preposition] : Swift appeared outside him with Andrews on his left.
2 [preposition] beyond the limits or scope of: the high cost of shipping has put it outside their price range. 
PHRASES
at the outside (of an estimate) at the most: every minute, or at the outside, every ninety seconds. on the outside away from or not belonging to a particular circle or institution: when you're on the outside, then you have a much better view of what they're doing. on the outside looking in (of a person) excluded from a group or activity. an outside chance a remote possibility. outside of informal beyond the boundaries of: a village
20 miles outside of New York. 
• apart from: outside of his family, nobody cares too much about him.usage: Outside of tends to be more commonly used in the US than in Britain, where outside usually suffices, but, like its cousin off of, it is colloquial and not recommended for formal writing. (See usage at off.) The adverb outside is not problematic when referring to physical space, position, etc. ( I'm going outside), but the compound preposition outside of is often used as a colloquial (and often inferior) way of saying except for, other than, apart from ( outside of what I just mentioned, I can't think of any reason not to). Besides possibly sounding more informal than desired, outside of may cause misunderstanding by suggesting physical space or location when that is not the point to be emphasized, or when no such sense is intended—consider the ambiguity in this sentence: outside of China, he has few interests. Does this mean that his primary interest is China? Or does it mean that whenever he is not in China, he has few interests?
