over
1 
BrE ˈəʊvə, AmE ˈoʊvər 

A.  preposition 
① (above) 在…上方 zài… shàngfāng clouds over the valley 峡谷上空的云 a bridge over the river 河上的一座桥 
② (across top, surface of) 穿越…上方 chuānyuè… shàngfāng to jump/look over a wall 从墙头跳过去/望过去 to walk over a bridge 从桥上走过去 
③ (upon, to cover) 在…上面 zài… shàngmian she carried her coat over her arm 她把外套搭在手臂上 I spilled coffee over my dress 我把咖啡洒在了连衣裙上 shutters over the windows 窗户上的百叶窗 
④ (beyond) 在…对面 zài… duìmiàn just over the river 就在河对岸 the noise came from over the wall 响声从墙那头传来 to escape over the border 越境逃跑 
⑤ (across and down) 从…向下 cóng… xiàngxià ‹edge›to fall over a cliff 从悬崖上跌落 
⑥ (down upon) 落到…上 luòdào… shang to hit [somebody] over the head 打某人的头 to fall over the cat 被猫绊倒 
⑦ (higher, louder than) 比…高 bǐ… gāo ‹person, structure›the water was/came over my ankles 水没过了我的脚踝 I couldn't hear his voice over the noise of the storm 他的声音被暴风雨的咆哮盖住了，我听不到 
⑧ (more than) 比…多 bǐ… duō temperatures of over 40° 40度以上的温度 well over 500 people 远远多于500人 children of/aged over seven 7岁以上的儿童 to take over a year 耗费一年多时间 over and above 除…之外 
⑨ (above in power) 高于 gāo yú the officers over him 他的上级军官 to rule over a kingdom/the French 统治王国/法国人 
⑩ (above in degree) 优于 yōu yú (above in quantity) 多于 duō yú to have an advantage over one's enemy 比敌人更有优势 to choose that one over the other 选择那个而不是另一个 an increase of 5% over last year's total 超过去年总量5％的增长 
⑪ (transferring) to sign/hand over 签字转让/移交 qiānzì zhuǎnràng/yíjiāo ‹property, right›
⑫ (during) 在…期间 zài… qījiān over the weekend/summer 在周末/夏季 over the last decade 在过去的十年中 to discuss [something] over lunch 边吃午餐边商量某事 to go away over Christmas 圣诞节期间外出 
⑬ (recovered from) 从…中恢复 cóng… zhōng huīfù ‹illness, setback›to be over the worst 熬过最艰难的时期 I'll be over it soon 我很快就能熬过去的 to be/get over [somebody] (lover) 和某人分手后恢复过来 
⑭ (by means of) 通过 tōngguò ‹phone, radio, Internet›
⑮ (everywhere in) 遍及 biànjí to travel all over Asia 游遍亚洲 to travel the world over literary 周游世界 to show [somebody] over the house 带某人参观房子各处 
⑯ (about) 关于 guānyú to laugh over [something] 为某事发笑 to pause over a difficulty 因一个难题中止 
⑰ (while engaged with) to fall asleep over one's work 工作时睡着 gōngzuò shí shuìzháo to go over the details with [somebody] 和某人一起检查细节 hé mǒu rén yīqǐ jiǎnchá xìjié 
⑱ (so as to affect) 影响 yǐngxiǎng a change that came over her 影响她的变化 what has come over her? 她怎么啦？ 
⑲ Mathematics colloquial (divided by) 除以 chúyǐ ‹numeral›12 over
4 is
3 12除以4等于3 
B.  adverb 
① (up and across) 翻过 fānguo to climb/jump over 爬/跳过去 over you go! 翻过去！ 
② (across space) 穿过 chuānguo to throw/move [something] over 把某物扔/搬过去 to come over here 过来 to go over there 过去 to go over to Italy 去意大利 over against literal 在…对面 zài… duìmiàn figurative 与…相反 yǔ… xiāngfǎn to put [something] over against the wall 把某物面朝墙放 
③ (at location of) 在 zài where? — over here/there 在哪里？──在这里/那里 the view over in France 法国那边的风景 
④ (throughout area) 遍及 biànjí to wander all over 到处转悠 
⑤ (to one's place) to invite or ask or colloquial have [somebody] over 请某人来家里 qǐng mǒu rén lái jiā li I'll be over at
8 o'clock 我8点钟过来 wǒ
8 diǎn zhōng guòlai to come over for lunch 过来吃午饭 guòlai chī wǔfàn 
⑥ (from upright) 往下 wǎngxià to fall/trip over 倒下/绊倒 to push [something] over 把某物推倒 
⑦ (over edge) 溢出 yìchū the milk boiled over 牛奶煮溢了 [something] spilled over 某物溢出来了 
⑧ (covering) 覆盖 fùgài to paint/board [something] over 把某物全部油漆/用木板封住 the river froze over 河面被冰封住了 
⑨ (on top) 在顶部 zài dǐngbù this one goes over and that one under 这个在顶上，那个在下面 
⑩ (more) 以上 yǐshàng or/and over; 及以上 children of seven and/or over 7岁及7岁以上的儿童 temperatures of 40° and over 40°及40°以上的温度 
⑪ (showing change, transfer) 转移 zhuǎnyí to win [somebody] over 将某人争取过来 hand it over! 把它交过来！ and now over to … Television, Radio 现在转到… over to you 请讲 over to Tim for the weather 下面请蒂姆播送天气预报 
⑫ Radio 完毕 wánbì over and out 通话完毕 
⑬ (finished) to be over; 结束 jiéshù the rain is over 雨停了 yǔ tíng le to get [something] over (with) 做完某事 zuòwán mǒu shì to be over and done with 终告结束 zhōng gào jiéshù 
⑭ (reversed, inverted) to turn over in bed 在床上翻身 zài chuáng shang fānshēn the dog rolled over 狗打了个滚 gǒu dǎle gè gǔn to bend [something]/double oneself over 折起某物/弯腰 zhéqǐ mǒu wù/wānyāo to change the two photos over 把两张照片掉换 bǎ liǎng zhāng zhàopiàn diàohuàn 
⑮ (repeated) 重复地 chóngfù de several/many times over 重复几次/多次 over and over (again) 反复地 do it/start over (again) especially AmE 重做这事/重新开始 
⑯ (remaining) to be over; «number, amount» 剩余 shèngyú
2 into
5 goes twice and one over 5除以2商2余1 there's nothing over 什么都不剩了 shénme dōu bù shèng le 
⑰ BrE (excessively) 过分 guòfèn he was not over pleased 他没有高兴过了头 
over 
ˈōvər

▶preposition
1 extending directly upward from: I saw flames over Berlin. 
• above so as to cover or protect: an oxygen tent over the bed 
ladle this sauce over fresh pasta. 
• extending above (a general area) from a vantage point: views over Hyde Park. 
• at the other side of; beyond: over the hill is a small village.
2 expressing passage or trajectory across: she trudged over the lawn. 
• beyond and falling or hanging from: it toppled over the cliff. 
• expressing duration: inventories have been refined over many years 
she told me over coffee. 
• by means of; by the medium of: over the loudspeaker.
3 at a higher level or layer than: watching a television hanging over the bar. 
• higher in grade or rank than: over him is the financial director. 
• expressing authority or control: editorial control over what is included. 
• expressing preference: I'd choose the well-known brand over that one. 
• expressing greater number: there was a slight predominance of boys over girls. 
• higher in volume or pitch than: he shouted over the noise of the taxis.
4 higher than or more than (a specified number or quantity): over 40 degrees C 
they have lived together for over a year.
5 on the subject of: a heated debate over unemployment. 
▶adverb
1 expressing passage or trajectory across an area: he leaned over and tapped me on the hand. 
• beyond and falling or hanging from a point: listing over at an acute angle.
2 in or to the place mentioned or indicated: over here 
come over and cheer us up.
3 used to express action and result: the car flipped over 
hand the money over. 
• finished: the match is over 
message understood, over and out.
4 used to express repetition of a process: twice over 
the sums will have to be done over again. 
▶noun Cricket a sequence of six balls bowled by a bowler from one end of the pitch. 
PHRASES
be over no longer be affected by: we were over the worst. get something over with do or undergo something unpleasant or difficult, so as to be rid of it. over against adjacent to: over against the wall. 
• in contrast with: over against heaven is hell. over and above in addition to: exceptional service over and above what normally might be expected. over and done with completely finished. over and over again and again. over to you informal used to say that it is now your turn or responsibility: it's over to you, the people of Scotland, to decide who should win.ORIGIN Old English ofer, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch over and German über, from an Indo-European word (originally a comparative of the element represented by -ove in above) which is also the base of Latin super and Greek huper .
