pace 
BrE peɪs, AmE peɪs 

A.  noun 
① (step) 一步 yī bù to take a pace forward/back 向前迈/后退一步 
② (distance) 步幅 bù fú twenty paces (away) from … 离…二十步远 at (a distance of) thirty paces 在（相距）三十步远处 
③ (speed) 速度 sùdù at a fast pace 快速地 at a brisk or cracking pace 迅速地 at a slow/steady pace 以缓慢/平稳的速度 to keep pace with [somebody]/[something] 与某人/某物并驾齐驱 to set the pace (fix the speed) 确定速度 (establish the standard) 确立标准 (be the leader) 领先 
④ (rate) 节奏 jiézòu at a steady pace 以平稳的步速 at one's own pace 按自己的节奏 the leisurely pace of life in the country 乡间悠闲的生活节奏 
B.  paces noun plural (routine) 步态 bùtài to put a horse through its paces 让马展示步态 to put [somebody] through their paces 考查某人的能力 to show one's paces «horse» 展示步态 «person» 展示才能 zhǎnshì cáinéng 
C.  intransitive verb 踱步 duó bù to pace up and down 走来走去 
D.  transitive verb 
① (walk up and down) 在…上走来走去 zài… shang zǒulái zǒuqù ‹floor›; 在…里走来走去 zài… li zǒulái zǒuqù ‹corridor, room›I spent hours pacing the carpet in the waiting room 我在等候室的地毯上来回走了好几个小时 
② (set the pace for) 为…确定速度 wèi… quèdìng sùdù ‹runner, cyclist, competitor›he paced himself perfectly in the run-up to the competition 他在比赛助跑阶段的速度控制得很完美 he didn't pace the lecture properly 他没把握好演讲的节奏 PHRASAL VERB pace out transitive verb[pace out something], [pace something out] 以步丈量 yǐ bù zhàngliáng ‹distance›
pace
1 
pās

▶noun
1 a single step taken when walking or running. 
• a unit of length representing the distance between two successive steps in walking. 
• a gait of a horse or other animal, especially one of the recognized trained gaits of a horse. 
• literary a person's manner of walking or running: I steal with quiet pace.
2 consistent and continuous speed in walking, running, or moving: most traffic moved at the pace of the riverboat 
[in singular] : walking at a comfortably fast pace. 
• the speed or rate at which something happens, changes, or develops: the children work separately in the classroom at their own pace 
the poor neighborhoods fester at an increasingly rapid pace. 
▶verb [no object] walk at a steady and consistent speed, especially back and forth and as an expression of one's anxiety or annoyance: we paced up and down in exasperation 
[with object] : she had been pacing the room. 
• [with object] measure (a distance) by walking it and counting the number of steps taken: I paced out the dimensions of my new home. 
• [with object] lead (another runner in a race) in order to establish a competitive speed: Morales paced us for four miles. 
• (pace oneself) do something at a slow and steady rate or speed in order to avoid overexerting oneself: Frank was pacing himself for the long night and day ahead. 
• [with object] move or develop (something) at a particular rate or speed: the action is paced to the beat of a perky march 
[as adjective in combination] (-paced) : our fast-paced daily lives. 
• (of a horse) move in a distinctive lateral gait in which both legs on the same side are lifted together, seen mostly in specially bred or trained horses. 
PHRASES
change of pace chiefly North American a change from what one is used to: the magenta is a change of pace from traditional red. keep pace with move, develop, or progress at the same speed as: fees have had to be raised a little to keep pace with inflation. off the pace behind the leader or leading group in a race or contest. put someone (or something) through their (or its) paces make someone (or something) demonstrate their (or its) qualities or abilities: the cars are examined by our safety experts and put through their paces by our drivers. set the pace be the fastest runner in the early part of a race. 
• lead the way in doing or achieving something: space movies have set the pace for the development of special effects.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French pas, from Latin passus ‘stretch (of the leg),’ from pandere ‘to stretch.’
