pack 
BrE pak, AmE pæk 

A.  noun 
① (packet) 盒 hé a pack of cigarettes/paper hankies 一盒香烟/纸巾 a giant/economy-size pack 大包装/经济装 
② BrE (of cards) 一副 yī fù 
③ (backpack) 背包 bēibāo ; (carried by animal) 驮包 tuó bāo 
④ (of wolves, hounds) 一群 yī qún (of bikers, motorcyclists) 一批 yī pī (of thieves) 一伙 yī huǒ leader of the pack 领先者 to hunt in packs 集体出击 a pack of fools 一群蠢材 the young people go around in packs terrorizing the neighbourhood 这群年轻人拉帮结伙恐吓四邻 
⑤ plus singular or plural verb (in rugby) 全体前卫 quántǐ qiánwèi 
⑥ Sport the pack (runners) 跟跑队伍 gēn páo duìwu (riders) 跟骑队伍 gēn qí duìwu 
⑦ Medicine 敷料 fūliào 
⑧ (cosmetic) 敷料 fūliào 
B.  transitive verb 
① (stow) 收好 shōuhǎo ‹clothes, shoes›; 包裹 bāo guǒ ‹meat, foodstuffs›; 包装 bāozhuāng ‹appliances, goods›to pack [something] in [something]; 把某物装进某物 
② (put things into) 装 zhuāng ‹suitcase, box›; 打 dǎ ‹parcel›to pack [something] with [something]; 把某物装到某物里 we're packing a box with emergency supplies to send to refugees 我们正把送给难民的紧急救援物资装箱 to pack one's bags literal 收拾行装 figurative 准备离开 zhǔnbèi líkāi what made you decide to pack your bags and move to another company? 是什么让你决定离开，跳槽到另一家公司？ 
③ (package commercially) «company, machine» 加工包装 jiāgōng bāozhuāng ‹produce, goods›
④ (cram into) «crowd» 挤满 jǐmǎn ‹hall, church, theatre›to be packed with people 挤满了人 you can pack a lot of reading into a two-week vacation 两周的假期可以读很多书 
⑤ Medicine 包扎 bāozā if you have a nosebleed, pack the nostrils with cotton wool 流鼻血时，用药棉塞住鼻孔 
⑥ (press firmly) 压实 yā shí the wind packed the snow against the wall 风把雪吹得紧贴在墙上 to pack the earth around the base of the plant 把植物根部周围的土拍结实 
⑦ (fill with supporters) 在…中安插支持者 zài… zhōng ānchā zhīchízhě ‹jury, committee, audience›
⑧ to pack a punch colloquial (hit with force) «fighter, boxer» 能重拳出击 figurative «speaker, politician» 很大影响力 hěn dà yǐngxiǎnglì «drink» 酒劲很大 jiǔjìn hěn dà she packed quite a punch in the committee meeting 她在委员会会议上的发言掷地有声 that home-made cherry brandy packs a tremendous punch 那种家酿樱桃白兰地酒劲很大 
⑨ colloquial (carry) 携带 xiédài ‹gun›
⑩ (store) 储藏 chǔcáng they used to preserve fish by packing it in salt 他们过去常用盐把鱼腌上储藏 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (get one's things together) 打点行装 dǎdian xíngzhuāng 
② (go, fit) 适合包装 shìhé bāozhuāng these little boxes will pack very easily in the corner of a suitcase 这些小盒子很容易塞到手提箱的角落 
③ (crowd) 挤满 jǐmǎn to pack into [something]; 挤满某处 PHRASAL VERBS pack away transitive verb[pack something away, pack away something] 
① (put away) 收拾好 shōushi hǎo ‹objects, toys, clothes›
② (for long-term storage) 保存 bǎocún those old photo albums are all packed away in the loft 那些旧影集都存放在阁楼上 pack in colloquial 
A.  transitive verb 
① [pack something in, pack in something] (give up, stop doing) 放弃 fàngqì to pack one's job in 辞掉工作 to pack in smoking/drinking 戒烟/戒酒 to pack it (all) in （彻底）结束 she packed it all in and went off to live in America 她放弃了一切去美国定居了 if you don't pack it in, you won't get any supper 如果你再不听话，就别想吃晚饭了 
② [pack somebody/something in] (cram in) 把…塞进 bǎ… sāijìn to be packing them in Theatre 场场爆满 Cats packed them in for over twenty years 《猫》上演二十多年来一直吸引着大批观众 
B.  intransitive verb (break down) «machine, car» 出故障 chū gùzhàng ; «heart, kidneys, liver» 出毛病 chū máobìng pack off transitive verb[pack somebody off] colloquial 打发 dǎfa to pack [somebody] off (somewhere) 打发某人（去某地） I was packed off to hospital for surgery 我被送到医院做手术 pack up 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (get one's things together) 打点行装 dǎdian xíngzhuāng I'm all packed up and ready to go 我整装待发 
② colloquial (finish) 停止 tíngzhǐ let's pack up now and finish the job tomorrow 我们现在收工吧，明天再把活干完 school packs up in about a week's time 学校大约一周之后放假 
③ colloquial (break down) «machine, engine» 出故障 chū gùzhàng ; «heart, kidneys, liver» 出毛病 chū máobìng 
B.  transitive verb 
① (put away) [pack something up, pack up something] 收拾好 shōushi hǎo ‹tools, belongings›
② colloquial (stop) 结束 jiéshù ‹work, task›
pack
1 
pak

▶noun
1 a small cardboard or paper container and the items contained within it: a pack of cigarettes. 
• a set of playing cards. 
• a knapsack or backpack. 
• a collection of related documents, especially one kept in a folder: an information pack. 
• (often the pack) a quantity of fish, fruit, or other foods packed or canned in a particular season or year.
2 a group of wild animals, especially wolves, living and hunting together. 
• a group of hounds kept and used for hunting, especially fox hunting. 
• an organized group of Cub Scouts. 
• (the pack) the main body of competitors following the leader or leaders in a race or competition: figurative : the company was demonstrating the kind of innovations needed to keep it ahead of the pack. 
• chiefly derogatory a group or set of similar things or people: the reports were a pack of lies. 
• short for pack ice. 
• Rugby a team's forwards considered as a group.
3 a hot or cold pad of absorbent material, especially as used for treating an injury. 
• a cosmetic mask. 
▶verb [with object] fill (a suitcase or bag), especially with clothes and other items needed when away from home: I packed a bag with a few of my favorite clothes 
[no object] : she had packed and checked out of the hotel. 
• place (something) in a container, especially for transportation or storage: I packed up my stuff and drove to Detroit. 
• [no object] be capable of being folded up for transportation or storage: these silver foil blankets pack into a small area. 
• (pack something in) store something perishable in (a specified substance) in order to preserve it: the organs were packed in ice. 
• informal carry (a gun): a sixteen-year-old can make a fortune selling drugs and pack a gun in the process. 
• cram a large number of things into (a container or space): it was a large room, packed with beds jammed side by side. 
• (often as adjective packed) (of a large number of people) crowd into and fill (a room, building, or place): the waiting room was packed. 
• cover, surround, or fill (something): he packed the wounds with healing malaguetta. 
• [no object] Rugby (of players) form or take their places in a scrum: we often packed down with only seven men. 
PHRASES
pack heat North American informal carry a gun. pack it in informal stop what one is doing. pack a punch be capable of hitting with skill or force: Rosie could pack a hefty punch. 
• have a powerful effect: the Spanish wine packed quite a punch. packed out 
ˌpakt ˈout 
British informal (of a place) very crowded. send someone packing informal make someone leave in an abrupt or peremptory way.PHRASAL VERBS pack something in informal give up an activity or job. pack someone off informal send someone somewhere without much warning or notice: they packed me off to the academy in Baltimore. pack something out North American carry something away rather than leaving it behind (used especially with respect to refuse at remote campsites): pack out any garbage you have left.DERIVATIVES packable adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: from Middle Dutch and Middle Low German pak (noun), pakken (verb). The verb appears early in Anglo-Latin and Anglo-Norman French in connection with the wool trade; trade in English wool was chiefly with the Low Countries.
