pad 
BrE pad, AmE pæd 

A.  noun 
① (cushioning material) 软垫 ruǎndiàn a foam/rubber/felt pad 泡沫垫/橡胶垫/毡垫 a scouring pad 百洁布 
② Sport (in cricket, hockey) 防护垫 fánghùdiàn to wear pads 戴护垫 
③ (block of paper) 便笺簿 biànjiānbù a desk pad 台笺簿 a pad of notepaper 记事簿 a telephone note pad 电话留言簿 
④ (of animal's foot) 爪垫 zhǎodiàn ; (of human finger) 指肚 zhǐdù 
⑤ (for space launch) 发射台 fāshètái 
⑥ Botany 睡莲浮叶 shuìlián fú yè 
⑦ (sanitary towel) 卫生巾 wèishēngjīn 
⑧ colloquial (house, flat, room) 住所 zhùsuǒ a bachelor pad 单身公寓 
B.  intransitive verb(present participle etc. -dd-) 蹑手蹑脚地走 niè shǒu niè jiǎo de zǒu he padded into the room quietly 他悄悄地走进房间 
C.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -dd-) 
① (put padding in or on) 给…加衬垫 gěi… jiā chèndiàn ‹jacket, dress, shoulders›to pad [something] with [something]; 用某物填充某物 I padded the wound with cotton wool 我在伤口上敷了块药棉 
② = pad out 
① PHRASAL VERB pad out transitive verb[pad out something, pad something out] 
① (expand unnecessarily) 拉长…的篇幅 lācháng… de piānfú ‹essay›; 拉长 lācháng ‹speech›
② (add items to) 使…丰富 shǐ… fēngfù ‹meal, course›; 虚报 xūbào ‹bill, expense account›to pad [something] out with [something]; 给某物添加某物 
pad
1 
pad

▶noun
1 a thick piece of soft material used to reduce friction or jarring, enlarge or change the shape of something, or hold or absorb liquid: sterile gauze pads. 
• short for ink pad. 
• the fleshy underpart of an animal's foot or of a human finger. 
• a protective guard worn by a sports player to protect a part of the body from blows.
2 a number of sheets of blank paper fastened together at one edge, used for writing or drawing on.
3 a flat-topped structure or area used for helicopter takeoff and landing or for rocket launching. 
• Electronics a flat area on a track of a printed circuit or on the edge of an integrated circuit to which wires or component leads can be attached to make an electrical connection.
4 informal a person's home: the police raided my pad.
5 short for lily pad. 
▶verb (pads, padding, padded) [with object] (often as adjective padded) fill or cover (something) with a soft material in order to give it a particular shape, protect it or its contents, or make it more comfortable: a padded envelope. 
• North American add false items to (an expense report or bill) in order to receive unjustified payment: faked repairs and padded expenses for government work reaped billions of dollars for the Mafia. ORIGIN mid 16th century (in the sense ‘bundle of straw to lie on’): the senses may not be of common origin; the meaning ‘underpart of an animal's foot’ is perhaps related to Low German pad ‘sole of the foot’; the history remains obscure.
