page
1 
BrE peɪdʒ, AmE peɪdʒ 

A.  noun 
① (in book, newspaper) 页 yè at the top or head of the page 在页眉 at the foot or bottom of the page 在页脚 the sports/women's page 体育/女性版 
② Computing 页面 yèmiàn 
③ figurative (episode) 一段历史 yī duàn lìshǐ a page in the history of the world 世界史上的一页 
B.  transitive verb 
① (over loudspeaker) 通过广播呼叫 tōngguò guǎngbō hūjiào paging Mr Jones 呼叫琼斯先生 
② (on pager) 用寻呼机呼叫 yòng xúnhūjī hūjiào 
③ (paginate) 为…标页码 wèi… biāo yèmǎ ‹book›
C.  intransitive verb 
① (turn pages) to page backwards and forwards 前后翻阅 qiánhòu fānyuè to page through a magazine 翻阅杂志 fānyuè zázhì 
② Computing to page up/down; 向上/向下翻页 xiàng shàng/xiàng xià fān yè 
page
1 
pāj

▶noun one side of a sheet of paper in a collection of sheets bound together, especially as a book, magazine, or newspaper. 
• the material written or printed on a page: she silently read several pages. 
• [with modifier] a page of a newspaper or magazine set aside for a particular topic: the editorial page. 
• Printing the type set for the printing of a page. 
• Computing a section of stored data, especially that which can be displayed on a screen at one time. 
• a significant episode or period considered as a part of a longer history: the inconsistency of this transaction has no parallel on any page of our political history. 
▶verb
1 [no object] (page through) leaf through (a book, magazine, or newspaper): she was paging through an immense pile of Sunday newspapers. 
• Computing move through and display (text) one page at a time.
2 [with object] (usually as noun paging) Computing divide (a piece of software or data) into sections, keeping the most frequently accessed in main memory and storing the rest in virtual memory.
3 [with object] assign numbers to the pages in (a book or periodical); paginate. 
PHRASES
on the same page US (of two or more people) in agreement.DERIVATIVES paged adjective [in combination] : a many-paged volumeORIGIN late 16th century: from French, from Latin pagina, from pangere ‘fasten.’
