paint 
BrE peɪnt, AmE peɪnt 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(for decorating) 油漆 yóuqī a can or tin or pot of paint 一罐油漆 be careful, the paint's still wet on that door 当心，门上的油漆未干 it's like watching paint dry 这真无聊透顶 
② Uncountable(used by artist) 颜料 yánliào 
③ Countablepaints Art 绘画颜料 huìhuà yánliào a box of paints 一盒水彩颜料 yī hé shuǐcǎi yánliào a set of oil paints 一套油画颜料 yī tào yóuhuà yánliào 
④ Uncountablehumorous (make-up) 化妆品 huàzhuāngpǐn she always puts too much paint on 她总是浓妆艳抹 
B.  transitive verb 
① (apply paint to) 为…刷漆 wèi… shuā qī ‹room, house›I'm painting the walls (in) pink 我在把墙漆成粉红色 to paint one's nails 涂指甲油 to paint the town (red) 狂欢 
② (draw) «painter, artist» 用颜料画 yòng yánliào huà ‹portrait, landscape›to paint a picture on canvas/board/paper 在画布/木板/纸上作画 
③ (portray) 描绘 miáohuì their diaries paint a vivid picture of country life 他们的日记生动地描绘了乡村生活 not as black as he/she/it is painted 他/她/它不像人们说得那么坏 
④ (apply with a brush) 涂抹 túmǒ to paint varnish on [something]; 在某处涂抹清漆 
⑤ (apply make-up to) 在…上涂化妆品 zài… shang tú huàzhuāngpǐn ‹face›to paint one's nails 涂指甲 she paints her lips bright red 她把嘴唇涂得鲜红 
C.  intransitive verb 
① Art «artist» 绘画 huìhuà to paint in oils/watercolours 用油画颜料/水彩作画 I prefer to paint outdoors 我更喜欢在户外作画 to paint on canvas/wood 在画布/木头上画画 
② (decorate) 刷油漆 shuā yóuqī PHRASAL VERBS paint in transitive verb[paint something in, paint in something] 补画 bǔ huà ‹figure, detail›paint out transitive verb[paint something out, paint out something] 用颜料涂掉 yòng yánliào túdiào 
paint 
pānt

▶noun
1 a colored substance that is spread over a surface and dries to leave a thin decorative or protective coating: a can of paint 
the paint has been applied to the surface with a palette knife. 
• an act of covering something with paint: it looked in need of a good paint. 
• informal cosmetic makeup: one has false curls, another too much paint. 
• Basketball the rectangular area marked near the basket at each end of the court; the foul lane: the two players jostled in the paint. 
• Computing the function or capability of producing graphics, especially those that mimic the effect of real paint: [as modifier] : a paint program.
2 North American a piebald horse: [as modifier] : a paint mare. 
▶verb [with object]
1 cover the surface of (something) with paint, as decoration or protection: the walls hadn't been painted for years 
[with object and complement] : the ceiling was painted dark gray 
(as adjective with submodifier painted) : a brightly painted trailer. 
• apply cosmetics to (the face or skin): she couldn't have been more than fourteen but her face was thickly painted. 
• apply (a liquid) to a surface with a brush. 
• (paint something out) efface something with paint: the markings on the plane were hurriedly painted out. 
• Computing create (a graphic or screen display) using a paint program. 
• display a mark representing (an aircraft or vehicle) on a radar screen.
2 depict (someone or something) or produce (a picture) with paint: I painted a woman sitting next to a table lamp 
Marr is a self-taught artist who paints portraits. 
• give a description of (someone or something): I'm painted as some nut case living in the woods. 
PHRASES
like watching paint dry (of an activity or experience) extremely boring. paint a picture of describe (someone or something) in a particular way: the president painted a grim picture of life in the next century. paint oneself into a corner leave oneself no means of escape or room to maneuver. paint the town (red) informal go out and enjoy oneself flamboyantly.DERIVATIVES paintable adjective. painty adjective (paintier, paintiest) ORIGIN Middle English: from peint ‘painted,’ past participle of Old French peindre, from Latin pingere ‘to paint.’
