pair 
BrE pɛː, AmE pɛr 

A.  noun 
① (of gloves, socks, shoes) 一双 yī shuāng (of cards, ornaments) 一对 yduì to be one of a pair 是一对中的一个 a matching pair 相匹配的一对 these gloves aren't a pair 这两只手套不是一副 I've only got one pair of hands! 我只有一双手！ she's got a nice pair of legs 她有一双美腿 in pairs 成对地 
② (of trousers, pants) 一条 yī tiáo (of pyjamas) 一套 ytào (of scissors, shears) 一把 ybǎ a pair of glasses 一副眼镜 
③ (two people) 俩人 liǎ rén you're a right pair of fools/layabouts colloquial 你们是一对十足的傻瓜/懒汉 
④ (married couple) 夫妻俩 fūqī liǎ 
⑤ (of animals) 一对动物 yī duì dòngwù a coach and pair 双驾四轮马车 
⑥ (matching item) 配对的另一个 pèiduì de lìng yī gè I'm looking for a pair to this china figure 我正在寻找与这个瓷人配对的另一只 
B.  transitive verb 
① (organize in pairs) 把…配对 bǎ… pèiduì I'll pair the socks and put them in the drawer 我来把这些短袜配成双放在抽屉里 
② (put together as a pair) 与…搭配 yǔ… dāpèi ‹clothes›; 为…配搭档 wèi… pèi dādàng ‹people›; 使…交配 shǐ… jiāopèi ‹animals›to pair the jeans with a T-shirt 用T恤和牛仔裤搭配 to pair each name with a photograph 把每个名字与相应的照片放在一起 to pair [somebody] with [somebody] 让某人和某人结对 I've been paired with Jonathan for the mixed doubles 我被指派与乔纳森组成一对参加混合双打 
C.  intransitive verb «animals, birds» 交配 jiāopèi ; «people» 结婚 jiéhūn I'll pair with Timothy 我将与蒂莫西结成夫妻 PHRASAL VERBS pair off 
A.  transitive verb[pair somebody off, pair off somebody] 撮合 cuōhe my mother keeps trying to pair David and me off 我妈妈一直想撮合我和戴维 to pair [somebody] off with [somebody]; 撮合某人和某人 
B.  intransitive verb 结对 jiéduì to pair off with [somebody]; 与某人配对 I paired off with Charles 我和查尔斯成了搭档 pair up 
A.  intransitive verb 结对 jiéduì to pair up with [somebody]; 与某人结成对 I paired up with Jean to do the experiment 我与吉恩联手做实验 
B.  transitive verb = pair 
B.  
pair 
per

▶noun a set of two things used together or regarded as a unit: a pair of gloves. 
• an article or object consisting of two joined or corresponding parts not used separately: a pair of jeans. 
• two playing cards of the same denomination: I have a pair of jacks. 
• two people related in some way or considered together: a company run by a pair of brothers 
every naughty thing the pair of them did made their faces look worse 
students work alone or in pairs. 
• the second member of a pair in relation to the first: each course member tries to persuade his pair of the merits of his model. 
• a mated couple of animals: nine breeding pairs of birds. 
• two horses harnessed side by side. 
• either or both of two members of a legislative assembly on opposite sides who absent themselves from voting by mutual arrangement, leaving the relative position of the parties unaffected. 
▶verb [with object] join or connect to form a pair: a cardigan paired with a matching skirt. 
• [no object] (of animals) mate: they bought a rooster to pair with the hen. 
• [no object] (pair off/up) form a couple: Rachel has paired up with Tommy. 
• give (a member of a legislative assembly) another member as a pair, to allow both to absent themselves from a vote without affecting the result: an absent member on one side is to be paired with an absentee on the other. 
PHRASES
pair of hands a person seen in terms of their participation in a task: we can always do with an extra pair of hands.DERIVATIVES pairwise 
-ˌwīz 
adjective & adverbORIGIN Middle English: from Old French paire, from Latin paria ‘equal things,’ neuter plural of par ‘equal.’ Formerly phrases such as a pair of gloves were expressed without of, as in a pair gloves (compare with German ein Paar Handschuhe).
