panel 
BrE ˈpan(ə)l, AmE ˈpænl 

A.  noun 
① Architecture 嵌板 qiànbǎn glass/wooden panel 玻璃板/木壁板 
② Auto, Technology (section) 金属板 jīnshǔbǎn 
③ (control panel) 控制板 kòngzhìbǎn an instrument/display panel 仪表/显示盘 
④ (in sewing) 镶饰片 xiāngshìpiàn 
⑤ (of judges, advisers) 专家咨询组 zhuānjiā zīxúnzǔ a panel of experts 专家组 to be on a panel 出席顾问小组 
⑥ Radio, Television (on quiz show) 评委小组 píngwěi xiǎozǔ (on talk show) 讨论小组 tǎolùn xiǎozǔ on our panel tonight we have … 今晚出席座谈会的有… 
B.  transitive verb (present participle etc. -ll- BrE, -l- AmE ) 用镶板镶 yòng xiāngbǎn xiāng ‹surface, room›to panel a wall in or with oak 用橡木板装饰墙壁 a panelled door/ceiling 镶板门/天花板 oak-/wood-panelled 镶橡木/木板的 
panel 
ˈpanl

▶noun
1 a flat or curved component, typically rectangular, that forms or is set into the surface of a door, wall, or ceiling: a layer of insulating material should be placed between the panels and the wall. 
• a thin piece of metal forming part of the outer shell of a vehicle: body panels for the car business. 
• a flat board on which instruments or controls are fixed: a control panel. 
• a decorated area within a larger design containing a separate subject: the central panel depicts the Crucifixion. 
• one of several drawings making up a comic strip. 
• a piece of material forming part of a garment.
2 a small group of people brought together to discuss, investigate, or decide on a particular matter, especially in the context of business or government: we assembled a panel of experts. 
• chiefly North American a list of available jurors or a jury. 
▶verb (panels, paneling, paneled; British panels, panelling, panelled) [with object] (usually as adjective paneled) cover (a wall or other surface) with panels: an elegant paneled dining room. ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French, literally ‘piece of cloth,’ based on Latin pannus ‘(piece of) cloth.’ The early sense ‘piece of parchment’ was extended to mean ‘list,’ whence the notion ‘advisory group’ sense
1 of the noun derives from the late Middle English sense ‘distinct (usually framed) section of a surface.’
