parade 
BrE pəˈreɪd, AmE pəˈreɪd 

A.  noun 
① Countable(procession) 游行行列 yóuxíng hángliè a parade of floats 游行彩车队伍 
② Uncountable and countableMilitary 阅兵 yuèbīng to be on parade 在接受检阅 
③ Uncountable and countable(exhibition of models) 展示 zhǎnshì 
④ Uncountable and countablefigurative pejorative (display) 炫耀 xuànyào to make a parade of [something] 暴露 ‹emotion› 夸耀 kuāyào ‹knowledge›to be on parade 在炫耀自己 
⑤ Countable BrE (row of shops) 一排商店 yī pái shāngdiàn (street) 有一排商店的街 yǒu yī pái shāngdiàn de jiē South Parade 南商业街 
B.  transitive verb 
① (assemble) 使…列队 shǐ… lièduì ‹soldiers›
② (walk through) 在…招摇而行 zài… zhāoyáo ér xíng ‹street, corridor›
③ (display) 巡行展示 xúnxíng zhǎnshì ‹flags, signs›
④ especially pejorative (flaunt) 炫耀 xuànyào ‹knowledge, success, wealth›
⑤ (advertise) to parade [something]/[somebody] as [something] 把某物/某人标榜为某物 bǎ mǒu wù/mǒu rén biāobǎng wéi mǒu wù to parade oneself as a supporter of the party 宣称自己为该党的支持者 
C.  intransitive verb 
① Military «soldiers» 列队集合 lièduì jíhé 
② (march in procession) 游行 yóuxíng 
③ especially pejorative (strut) 招摇过市 zhāoyáo guò shì to parade up and down the street 在街上招摇地走来走去 
④ (masquerade) to parade as [something] 冒充某物 màochōng mǒu wù myth parading as fact 外表看似真实的神话 PHRASAL VERB parade about, parade around intransitive verb 四处招摇 sìchù zhāoyáo 
parade 
pəˈrād

▶noun
1 a public procession, especially one celebrating a special day or event and including marching bands and floats. 
• a formal march or gathering of troops for inspection or display. 
• a series of people or things appearing or being displayed one after the other: the parade of Hollywood celebrities who troop onto his show. 
• a boastful or ostentatious display: the parade of lunacy and corruption will continue.
2 a parade ground. 
• British a public square or promenade. 
• British a row of stores: a shopping parade. 
▶verb walk or march in public in a formal procession or in an ostentatious or attention-seeking way: [no object] : officers will parade through the town center 
[with object] : carefree young men were parading the streets. 
• [with object] display (someone or something) while marching or moving around a place: guards dragged him from his home and paraded him through the streets. 
• [with object] display (something) publicly in order to impress or attract attention: he paraded his knowledge. 
• (parade as) appear falsely as; masquerade as: these untruths parading as history. 
• (of troops) assemble for a formal inspection or ceremonial occasion: the recruits were due to parade that day. 
PHRASES
on parade taking part in a parade. 
• on public display: politicians are always on parade.DERIVATIVES parader nounORIGIN mid 17th century: from French, literally ‘a showing,’ from Spanish parada and Italian parata, based on Latin parare ‘prepare, furnish.’
