parallel 
BrE ˈparəlɛl, AmE ˈpɛrəˌlɛl 

A.  adjective 
① Mathematics 平行的 píngxíng de ‹lines, rows›parallel to or with [something]; 与某物平行的 
② (similar) 极相似的 jí xiāngsì de ‹feature, case›to develop along parallel lines 并行发展 
③ (concurrent) 同时存在的 tóngshí cúnzài de a parallel universe 平行宇宙 
④ Electricity 并联的 bìnglián de ‹circuit›
B.  adverb 
① (side by side) 平行地 píngxíng de parallel to or with [something]; 与某物平行地 to swim parallel to the shore 沿着海岸游泳 to run parallel to or with the road «river» 和道路平行 to run parallel figurative «careers» 齐头并进 
② (concurrently) 同时地 tóngshí de parallel to or with [something]; 与某物同时地 to evolve/develop parallel to one another 彼此一同进化/发展 
C.  noun 
① Mathematics 平行线 píngxíngxiàn 
② Geography 纬线 wěixiàn 
③ (similarity) 相似处 xiāngsìchù (comparison) 比拟 bǐnǐ to be on a parallel with [something] 与某物类似 to draw or establish a parallel between … 在…之间找到相似点 ‹two situations, countries›to develop/proceed in parallel (side by side) 并行发展/齐头并进 (concurrently) 同时发展/进行 without parallel 无与伦比的 
④ Electricity to be connected in parallel 并联 bìnglián 
D.  transitive verb(present participle -ll- BrE, -l- AmE ) 
① (be side by side with) 与…平行 yǔ… píngxíng ‹road, line›
② (be similar to) 与…相似 yǔ… xiāngsì ‹event, experience›
③ (equal) 与…媲美 yǔ… pìměi ‹achievement, beauty›
④ (find analogy in) 将…作比拟 jiāng… zuò bǐnǐ ‹history, culture›
parallel 
ˈperəˌlel

▶adjective (of lines, planes, surfaces, or objects) side by side and having the same distance continuously between them: parallel lines never meet 
the road runs parallel to the Ottawa River. 
• occurring or existing at the same time or in a similar way; corresponding: a parallel universe 
they shared an apartment in Dallas while establishing parallel careers. 
• Computing involving the simultaneous performance of operations. 
• of or denoting electrical components or circuits connected to common points at each end, rather than one to another in sequence. The opposite of series. 
▶noun
1 a person or thing that is similar or analogous to another: a challenge that has no parallel in peacetime this century. 
• a similarity or comparison: he points to a parallel between biological evolution and cognitive development 
he draws a parallel between personal destiny and social forces.
2 (also parallel of latitude) each of the imaginary parallel circles of constant latitude on the earth's surface.
3 Printing two parallel lines (‖) as a reference mark. 
▶verb (parallels, paralleling, paralleled) [with object] (of something extending in a line) be side by side with (something extending in a line), always keeping the same distance: a big concrete gutter that paralleled the road. 
• be similar or corresponding to (something): the lawlessness throughout officialdom was paralleled by an increase in lawlessness on the streets. 
PHRASES
in parallel occurring at the same time and having some connection. 
• (of electrical components or circuits) connected to common points at each end; not in series.ORIGIN mid 16th century: from French parallèle, via Latin from Greek parallēlos, from para- ‘alongside’ + allēlos ‘one another.’
