park 
BrE pɑːk, AmE pɑrk 

A.  noun 
① (public garden) 公园 gōngyuán 
② Busn 园区 yuánqū a business/industrial park 商业/工业园区 
③ (estate) 庄园 zhuāngyuán 
④ BrE colloquial (pitch) 运动场 yùndòngchǎng 
B.  transitive verb 
① (station) 停放 tíngfàng ‹vehicle›
② colloquial (deposit) 寄放 jìfàng ‹belongings, things›I parked the children at my mother's 我把孩子托放在母亲家里 
C.  intransitive verb 停车 tíngchē 
D.  reflexive verb colloquial to park oneself 坐下 zuòxia 
park 
pärk

▶noun
1 a large public green area in a town, used for recreation: a walk around the park. 
• US a large area of land kept in its natural state for public recreational use. 
• (also wildlife park) a large enclosed area of land used to accommodate wild animals in captivity. 
• North American a stadium or enclosed area used for sports. 
• a large enclosed piece of ground, typically with woodland and pasture, attached to a large country house: the house is set in its own park. 
• US (in the western US) a broad, flat, mostly open area in a mountainous region.
2 [with adjective or noun modifier] an area devoted to a specified purpose: an industrial park. 
• chiefly British a parking lot or garage: a coach park.
3 (in a car with automatic transmission) the position of the gear selector in which the gears are locked, preventing the vehicle's movement. 
▶verb [with object] bring (a vehicle that one is driving) to a halt and leave it temporarily, typically in a parking lot or by the side of the road: he parked his car outside her house 
[no object] : he couldn't find anywhere to park. 
• informal deposit and leave in a convenient place until required: come on in, and park your bag by the door. 
• (park oneself in/on) informal sit down on or in: after dinner, we parked ourselves on a pair of couches. 
• informal postpone consideration of (an idea or plan) until a later date: could I suggest we park that suggestion for the moment? 
PHRASES
park the bus Soccer, informal (typically of an away team) play in a very defensive way: if they decide to park the bus and we don't score early on, then it may be a boring drawn-out game. [from the idea of parking the team bus in front of the goal.] a walk in the park see walk. ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French parc, from medieval Latin parricus, of Germanic origin; related to German Pferch ‘pen, fold,’ also to paddock. The word was originally a legal term designating land held by royal grant for keeping game animals: this was enclosed and therefore distinct from a forest or chase, and (also unlike a forest) had no special laws or officers. A military sense ‘space occupied by artillery, wagons, stores, etc., in an encampment’ (late 17th century) is the origin of the verb sense (mid 19th century) and of sense
2 of the noun (early 20th century).
