part 
BrE pɑːt, AmE pɑrt 
A. noun 
① (piece, section) 部分 bùfen the eastern/northern part 东部/北部 I'm only here part of the time 我只是部分时间在这里 Gaul was divided into three parts 高卢划分为三个部分 the latter part of the twentieth century 20世纪后半期 a hundredth part of a second 百分之一秒 part of me hates him 我有点恨他 parts of the broadcast 广播的片段 to feel part of the family/team 感到是家庭/团队的一员 for the most part 多半 in part 部分地 bùfen de in parts 有些部分 to be part and parcel of … 是…的重要部分 
② Auto, Technology 部件 bùjiàn parts and labour 零件带人工费 
③ (of book, play) 部 bù ; (of radio/TV programme) 集 jí a four-part series 四集连续剧 
④ (measure) 等份 děngfèn to mix one part flour and three parts water 把一份面粉和三份水混合 the human body is five parts water 人体六分之五是水 
⑤ (share, role) 职责 zhízé to do one's part (in doing [something]) 尽（做某事的）本分 to play a key part 发挥关键作用 to have a part in [something] (contribute to) 在某事中起作用 (participate in) 参与某事 to take part (in …) 参与（…） Russia took no further part in the war 俄罗斯没有进一步卷入战争 I want no part in it, I don't want any part of it 我不想牵涉进去 
⑥ Theatre, Cinema 角色 juésè have you learned your part yet? 你记住台词没有？ she played a lot of leading parts 她多次扮演主角 
⑦ Music (for instrument) 音部 yīnbù (for voice) 声部 shēngbù the viola/horn part 中提琴/圆号部 the soprano/tenor part 女高音/男高音声部 
⑧ (side, behalf) 方面 fāngmiàn for my/his part 就我/他而言 a mistake on the part of the bank 银行方面的错误 to take [somebody's] part 支持某人 to take [something] in good part 从容面对某事 
⑨ (region) 地区 dìqū in this part of the world 在这里 one's part of the world 自己的家乡 foreign parts 外国 
⑩ (skill) a man of (many) parts 多才多艺的人 duō cái duō yì de rén 
⑪ AmE (parting in hair) 分缝 fēn fèng 
B.  adverb 部分地 bùfen de my mother was part Irish, part French 我的母亲一半是爱尔兰血统，一半是法国血统 
C.  transitive verb 
① (separate physically) 分开 fēnkāi ‹boxers, friends›; 拉开 lākāi ‹curtains›; 张开 zhāngkāi ‹lips›nothing will ever part us 什么也不能把我们分开 the war parted many couples/families 战争拆散了许多夫妻/家庭 a fool and his money are soon parted proverb 愚人有钱留不住 to part the crowds 驱散人群 to be parted from [somebody]; 与某人分开 to part company 公开分手 John and Linda have decided to part company 约翰和琳达已经决定分道扬镳 the horse and rider parted company humorous 马把骑手甩了下去 to part company with [somebody] (separate from) 与某人分手 (differ with) 与某人有分歧 
② (make parting in) 给…分缝 gěi… fēn fèng ‹hair›
D.  intransitive verb 
① (take leave) «friends» 分别 fēnbié ; (split up) «married couple, lovers» 分手 fēnshǒu we parted good friends or on good terms 我们友好地分手了 
② (divide) «crowd» 散去 sànqù ; «lips» 张开 zhāngkāi ; «curtains» 拉开 lākāi the clouds parted, and the sun shone through 云开日见 
③ (break) «rope, cable, line» 断裂 duànliè PHRASAL VERB part with transitive verb[part with something] 割舍 gēshě ‹cherished object›
part 
▶noun
1 the last part of the cake 
a large part of their life: bit, slice, chunk, lump, hunk, wedge, fragment, scrap, piece; portion, proportion, percentage, fraction. ANTONYMS whole.
2 car parts: component, bit, constituent, element, module.
3 body parts: part of the body, organ, limb, member.
4 the third part of the book: section, division, volume, chapter, act, scene, installment.
5 another part of the country: district, neighborhood, quarter, section, area, region.
6 the part of Juliet: (theatrical) role, character, persona.
7 she's learning her part: lines, words, script, speech; libretto, lyrics, score.
8 he was jailed for his part in the affair: involvement, role, function, hand, work, responsibility, capacity, position, participation, contribution; informal bit.
▶verb
1 the curtains parted: separate, divide (in two), split (in two), move apart. ANTONYMS join.
2 we parted on bad terms: leave, take one's leave, say goodbye/farewell, say one's goodbyes/farewells, go one's (separate) ways, split, go away, depart. ANTONYMS meet.
▶adjective a part payment: incomplete, partial, half, semi-, limited, inadequate, insufficient, unfinished. ANTONYMS complete.
▶adverb it is part finished: to a certain extent/degree, to some extent/degree, partly, partially, in part, half, relatively, comparatively, (up) to a point, somewhat; not totally, not entirely, (very) nearly, almost, just about, all but. ANTONYMS completely.
PHRASES
for the most part See mostly. in part the water damage is due in part to the clogged gutters: to a certain extent/degree, to some extent/degree, partly, partially, slightly, in some measure, (up) to a point. on the part of there is increased interest in these coins on the part of collectors: (made/done) by, carried out by, caused by, from. part with Danielle could not part with her stuffed animals: give up/away, relinquish, forgo, surrender, hand over, deliver up, dispose of. take part anyone who cares to can take part: participate, join in, get involved, enter, play a part/role, be a participant, contribute, have a hand, help, assist, lend a hand; informal get in on the act. take part in all students must take part in this course before the end of junior year: participate in, engage in, join in, get involved in, share in, play a part/role in, be a participant in, contribute to, be associated with, have a hand in. CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD See fragment .These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
