particular 
BrE pəˈtɪkjʊlə, AmE pə(r)ˈtɪkjələr 

A.  adjective 
① (specific) 特指的 tèzhǐ de her particular brand of humour isn't much to my taste 她那种幽默不太对我的口味 is there any particular colour you would prefer? 有没有你喜欢的那种颜色？ nothing (in) particular 没什么特别的 in particular 尤其 why me in particular? 为什么偏偏是我？ 
② (special, exceptional) 特别的 tèbié de ‹attention, significance›we view these developments with particular concern 我们特别关注这些进展 a matter of particular importance 格外重要的事情 a particular friend 好朋友 this painting is a particular favourite of mine 这是我最喜欢的一幅画 
③ (fussy) 挑剔的 tiāoti de to be particular about [something]/doing [something]; 对某事/做某事挑剔 to be particular about cleanliness/punctuality 非常讲究整洁/守时 
B.  noun 
① (detail) 细节 xìjié (to be accurate/exact/correct) in every particular 在每个细节上（都准确/精确/正确） I don't think we need to go into particulars at this stage 我认为这个阶段我们没有必要谈论细节 
② particulars plural (personal information) 详细资料 xiángxì zīliào get her particulars down in your notebook 在你的笔记本上记下她的详细信息 
particular 
pə(r)ˈtikyələr

▶adjective
1 [attributive] used to single out an individual member of a specified group or class: the action seems to discriminate against a particular group of companies. 
• Logic denoting a proposition in which something is asserted of some but not all of a class. Contrasted with universal.
2 [attributive] especially great or intense: when handling or checking cash the cashier should exercise particular care.
3 insisting that something should be correct or suitable in every detail; fastidious: she is very particular about cleanliness. 
▶noun
1 Philosophy an individual item, as contrasted with a universal quality.
2 a detail: he is wrong in every particular. 
• (particulars) detailed information about someone or something: a clerk took the woman's particulars. 
PHRASES
in particular especially (used to show that a statement applies to one person or thing more than any other): he socialized with the other young people, one boy in particular.ORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French particuler, from Latin particularis ‘concerning a small part,’ from particula ‘small part.’
