passage 
BrE ˈpasɪdʒ, AmE ˈpæsɪdʒ 
noun 
① Countable(narrow way) (indoors) 走廊 zǒuláng (outdoors) 过道 guòdào 
② Countable(way through) 通道 tōngdào to clear/force/leave a passage 开/挤/留出一条通道 
③ CountableAnatomy 道 dào ear/urinary/nasal passages 耳道/尿道/鼻腔 
④ Countable(of speech, poetry, book etc.) 段落 duànluò (of music) 乐段 yuèduàn selected passages 选段 
⑤ Uncountable(movement) 通行 tōngxíng the passage of vehicles/ships 车辆/船只的通行 
⑥ UncountableLaw formal 通行权 tōngxíngquán to deny [somebody] passage 拒绝某人通行 
⑦ Uncountable(passing) 推移 tuīyí the passage of time/years 时间/岁月的流逝 
⑧ Uncountable(transition) 过渡 guòdù the passage from childhood to adolescence 从童年到少年的过渡 
⑨ Countabledated (journey) 旅程 lǚchéng to book/work one's passage 订购船票/在船上打工以支付旅费 
⑩ UncountablePolitics [法案的] 通过 tōngguò 
passage
1 
ˈpasij

▶noun
1 the act or process of moving through, under, over, or past something on the way from one place to another: there were moorings for boats wanting passage through the lock. 
• the act or process of moving forward: despite the passage of time she still loved him. 
• the right to pass through somewhere: we obtained a permit for safe passage from the embassy. 
• a journey or ticket for a journey by sea or air: he then booked passage home aboard a Spanish warship. 
• Ornithology (of a migrating bird) the action of passing through a place en route to its final destination: the species occurs regularly on passage 
[as modifier] : a passage migrant. 
• Medicine & Biology the process of propagating microorganisms or cells in a series of host organisms or culture media, so as to maintain them or modify their virulence.
2 a narrow way, typically having walls on either side, allowing access between buildings or to different rooms within a building; a passageway. 
• a duct, vessel, or other channel in the body.
3 the process of transition from one state to another: an allegory on the theme of the passage from ignorance to knowledge. 
• the passing of a bill into law: a catalyst for the unrest was the passage of a privatization law.
4 a short extract from a book or other printed material: he picked up the newspaper and read the passage again. 
• a section of a piece of music: nothing obscures the outlines of an orchestral passage more than a drumroll on an unrelated note. 
• an episode in a longer activity such as a sporting event: a neat passage of midfield play. 
▶verb [with object] Medicine & Biology subject (a strain of microorganisms or cells) to a passage: each recombinant virus was passaged nine times successively. 
PHRASES
passage of (or at) arms a fight or dispute. work one's passage work in return for a free place on a voyage: he worked his passage home as a steward.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French, based on Latin passus ‘pace.’
