past 
BrE pɑːst, AmE pæst 

A.  preposition 
① (beyond in time) 过 guò quarter/half past
3 3点1刻/3点半 it is past
11 o'clock 已经过了11点了 she is past 60 她60出头了 
② (to the other side of) 到…的另一边 dào… de lìng yībiān (farther than, beyond) 在…的另一边 zài… de lìng yībiān he rushed past me 他从我身旁冲过去 just past the post office 就在邮局的那一头 
③ (beyond, above or below a certain level) 超过 chāoguò I never got past the first chapter 我一直停留在第一章 she didn't get past the initial interview 她没能通过最初的面试 they can't count past
3 他们不会数超过3的数 the temperature went down past zero 温度降到了零下 to be past its best (of food) 不新鲜了 the car is past its prime 这辆车已风光不再 
④ (no longer capable of) 超出…的能力 chāochū… de nénglì he's past playing football 他不再能踢足球了 to be past it colloquial 年纪大不中用了 
⑤ (beyond scope of) 超出…的范围 chāochū… de fànwéi it is past all understanding 这简直匪夷所思 to be past caring 什么也不在乎了 to not put it past someone (to do [something]) (to do sth. wrong) 相信某人做得出来（某事） (to do sth. rash) 相信某人会鲁莽（做某事） 
B.  noun 
① (time that is over, previous history) 过去 guòqù in the past 在过去 she lives in the past 她活在过去的时光中 a thing of the past 过去的事 a nation with a glorious past 有着光辉历史的民族 a woman with a past 有一段不光彩历史的女人 
② Linguistics (past tense) 过去时 guòqùshí (past form) 过去式 guòqùshì 
C.  adjective 
① attributive (preceding) 刚过去的 gāng guòqu de for the past few years 近几年来 the past week 上周 
② attributive (earlier, former) 从前的 cóngqián de past generations/president 先辈/前任总统 in times past 在过去 past achievements 过去的成就 he has a past history of violence 他有过使用暴力的历史 
③ predicative (gone by) 结束的 jiéshù de summer is past 夏天过去了 all that is now past 一切已经过去了 
④ attributive Linguistics 过去时的 guòqùshí de in the past tense 用过去时 
D.  adverb 
① (from one side to another) 经过 jīngguò to hurry past 匆忙经过 
② (ago) 过去 guòqù two years past 两年前 
past 
past

▶adjective gone by in time and no longer existing: the danger is now past. 
• [attributive] belonging to a former time: they made a study of the reasons why past attempts had failed 
he is a past chairman of the society. 
• [attributive] (of a specified period of time) occurring before and leading up to the time of speaking or writing: the band has changed over the past twelve months. 
• Grammar (of a tense) expressing an action that has happened or a state that previously existed. 
▶noun
1 (usually the past) the time or a period of time before the moment of speaking or writing: she found it hard to make ends meet in the past 
the war-damaged church is preserved as a reminder of the past. 
• the history of a person, country, or institution: the monuments act as guidelines through the country's colorful past. 
• informal a part of a person's history that is considered to be shameful: the heroine was a lady with a past.
2 Grammar a past tense or form of a verb: a simple past of the first conjugation. 
▶preposition to or on the further side of: he rode on past the crossroads. 
• in front of or from one side to the other of: he began to drive slowly past the houses. 
• beyond in time; later than: by this time it was past 3:30. 
• no longer capable of: he is past giving the best advice. 
• beyond the scope of: my hair was past praying for. 
▶adverb so as to pass from one side of something to the other: large angelfish swim slowly past. 
• used to indicate the lapse of time: a week went past and nothing changed. 
PHRASES
not put it past someone believe someone to be capable of doing something wrong or rash: I wouldn't put it past him to slip something into the drinks.DERIVATIVES pastness nounORIGIN Middle English: variant of passed, past participle of pass1 .
