pattern 
BrE ˈpat(ə)n, AmE ˈpædərn 

A.  noun 
① (decorative design) 图案 tú'àn a wavy/stripy pattern 波浪线/条纹图案 
② (repeated motifs) 式样 shìyàng the cards have a pattern of holes on them 这些卡片上有一串孔状图形 the pattern on a tyre 轮胎的纹路 
③ (for sewing, knitting) 图样 túyàng a knitting pattern 编织图样 a paper pattern 纸样 
④ (model, example) 榜样 bǎngyàng on the pattern of …; 以…为榜样 to establish or set a or the pattern for [something] 为某事树立榜样 
⑤ (regular or standard way) 模式 móshì patterns of behaviour, behaviour patterns 行为模式 to follow a set pattern 遵循固定模式 sentences having a similar grammatical pattern 具有类似语法结构的句子 
⑥ (sample of cloth, wallpaper etc.) 样品 yàngpǐn 
⑦ Technology 模子 múzi 
B.  transitive verb 
① (model) 模仿 mófǎng to pattern [something] on or after [something]; 按照某物仿造某物 his ideas are patterned on Hayek's 他的想法仿自海克 
② (decorate) 装饰 zhuāngshì ‹fabric, wall›rosebud patterned wallpapers 玫瑰花蕾图案壁纸 
pattern 
ˈpadərn

▶noun
1 a repeated decorative design: a neat blue herringbone pattern. 
• an arrangement or sequence regularly found in comparable objects or events: the house had been built on the usual pattern. 
• a regular and intelligible form or sequence discernible in certain actions or situations: a complicating factor is the change in working patterns.
2 a model or design used as a guide in needlework and other crafts. 
• a set of instructions to be followed in making a sewn or knitted item. 
• a wooden or metal model from which a mold is made for a casting. 
• an example for others to follow: he set the pattern for subsequent study. 
• a sample of cloth or wallpaper. 
▶verb [with object]
1 (usually as adjective patterned) decorate with a recurring design: rosebud patterned wallpapers 
violet-tinged flowers patterned the grassy banks.
2 give a regular or intelligible form to: the brain not only receives information, but interprets and patterns it. 
• (pattern something on/after) give something a form based on that of (something else): the clothing is patterned on athletes' wear. ORIGIN Middle English patron ‘something serving as a model,’ from Old French (see patron). The change in sense is from the idea of a patron giving an example to be copied. Metathesis in the second syllable occurred in the 16th century By 1700 patron ceased to be used of things, and the two forms became differentiated in sense.
