peace 
BrE piːs, AmE pis 
nounUncountable
① (absence of violence or conflict) 和平 hépíng the two countries are at peace 两国现在和平相处 to make peace 议和 before noun 呼吁裁军的 hūyù cáijūn de ‹meeting, campaign›a peace demonstration/march 和平示威/游行 
② (period without war) 和平时期 hépíng shíqī a lasting peace 持久和平 
③ (treaty) 和约 héyuē a negotiated peace 谈判达成的和约 
④ (tranquillity) 安静 ānjìng (serenity, calmness) 宁静 níngjìng to leave [somebody] in peace; 不打扰某人 to give [somebody] no peace; 不断地打扰某人 peace of mind 心境的安宁 to be or live at peace with the world 与世无争 to be at peace euphemistic 安息 to hold one's peace 保持沉默 
⑤ (concord, friendliness) 和睦 hémù to keep the peace in the family 保持家庭和睦 to make (one's) peace (with [somebody]) （与某人）和解 
⑥ (law and order) 治安 zhì'ān to keep the peace (enforce lawful ways) 维持治安 (behave in a lawful way) 遵纪守法 
peace 
pēs

▶noun
1 freedom from disturbance; quiet and tranquility: you can while away an hour or two in peace and seclusion. 
• mental calm; serenity: the peace of mind this insurance gives you.
2 freedom from or the cessation of war or violence: the Straits were to be open to warships in time of peace. 
• [in singular] a period of this: the peace didn't last. 
• [in singular] a treaty agreeing to the cessation of war between warring states: support for a negotiated peace. 
• freedom from civil disorder: police action to restore peace. 
• freedom from dispute or dissension between individuals or groups: the 8.8 percent offer that promises peace with the board.
3 (the peace) a ceremonial handshake or kiss exchanged during a service in some churches (now usually only in the Eucharist), symbolizing Christian love and unity. See also kiss of peace at kiss. 
▶exclam.
1 used as a greeting.
2 used as an order to remain silent. 
PHRASES
at peace
1 free from anxiety or distress. 
• dead (used to suggest that someone has escaped from the difficulties of life).
2 in a state of friendliness: a man at peace with the world. hold one's peace remain silent about something. keep the peace refrain or prevent others from disturbing civil order: the police must play a crucial role in keeping the peace. make peace (or one's peace) re-establish friendly relations; become reconciled: not every conservative has made peace with big government. no peace for the weary see no rest for the weary at weary. ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French pais, from Latin pax, pac- ‘peace.’
