peel 
BrE piːl, AmE pil 

A.  nounUncountable皮 pí 
B.  transitive verb 去掉…的皮 qùdiào… de pí to peel an apple 削苹果 to peel shrimps 剥虾 to keep one's eyes peeled colloquial 留心 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (flake, lose outer layer) «paint, surface» 剥落 bōluò ; «wall» 外层剥落 wàicéng bōluò 
② (shed skin) 脱皮 tuōpí I was peeling after a few days in the sun 我晒了几天太阳，脱皮了 my arms/legs were peeling 我的胳膊/腿脱皮了 
③ (be peelable) 可去皮 kě qù pí oranges that don't peel easily 不容易剥皮的橘子 PHRASAL VERBS peel away 
A.  intransitive verb «skin» 脱落 tuōluò ; «paint, wallpaper» 剥落 bōluò 
B.  transitive verb[peel away something], [peel something away] 剥掉 bāodiào peel back [peel back something, peel something back] transitive verb 剥掉 bāodiào peel off 
A.  intransitive verb 
① «skin» 脱落 tuōluò ; «paint, wallpaper» 剥落 bōluò 
② (from group) 离队 líduì 
③ BrE colloquial (undress) 脱衣服 tuō yīfu 
B.  transitive verb[peel off something, peel something off] 
① (remove) 揭掉 jiēdiào ‹stamp, sticker, wallpaper›
② (take off) 脱去 tuōqù ‹clothes›
peel
1 
pēl

▶verb
1 [with object] remove the outer covering or skin from (a fruit, vegetable, or shrimp): she watched him peel an apple with deliberate care. 
• remove (the outer covering or skin) from a fruit or vegetable: peel off the skins and thickly slice the potatoes. 
• [no object] (of a fruit or vegetable) have a skin that can be removed: oranges that peel easily. 
• (peel something away/off) remove or separate a thin covering or part from the outside or surface of something: carefully peel away the wax paper. 
• remove (an article of clothing): Suzy peeled off her white pullover.
2 [no object] (of a surface or object) lose parts of its outer layer or covering in small strips or pieces: the walls are peeling. 
• [with adverbial] (of an outer layer or covering) come off, especially in strips or small pieces. 
▶noun the outer covering or rind of a fruit or vegetable. PHRASAL VERBS peel off (of a member of a formation, especially a flying formation) leave the formation by veering away to one side: the pace was much too hot for Beris, and he peeled off after five laps. peel out North American informal leave quickly: he peeled out down the street.ORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘to plunder’): variant of dialect pill, from Latin pilare ‘to strip hair from,’ from pilus ‘hair.’ The differentiation of peel and pill may have been by association with the French verbs peler ‘to peel’ and piller ‘to pillage.’
