peg 
BrE pɛɡ, AmE pɛɡ 

A.  noun 
① (to hold things together) 夹子 jiāzi ; (to hang things) 挂物钉 guàwùdīng to use [something] as a peg (to hang a discussion/a theory on) figurative 以某事物为由头（展开讨论/理论） 
② (for garments) 衣服钩 yīfugōu coat/hat peg 衣钩/帽钩 to buy [something] off the peg 买某衣物的成品 
③ (for tent) 帐篷桩子 zhàngpeng zhuāngzi 
④ (for clothes) 晾衣夹子 liàng yī jiāzi 
⑤ (marking position) 界桩 jièzhuāng ; (for surveying) 地标 dìbiāo a surveyor's peg 测标 
⑥ (in carpentry) 栓 shuān 
⑦ Music 琴栓 qínshuān a tuning peg 调音栓 
⑧ (barrel stop) 塞子 sāizi 
⑨ (in mountaineering) 攀岩钉 pānyándīng 
⑩ BrE (small drink) 少量酒 shǎoliàng jiǔ a peg of whisky 一小杯威士忌酒 
⑪ (in self-esteem) to be taken or brought down a peg or two 被煞了几分威风 bèi shāle jǐfēn wēifēng to take or bring [somebody] down a peg (or two) 挫某人的锐气 cuò mǒu rén de ruìqì 
B.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -gg-) 
① (fasten) 用夹子夹住 yòng jiāzi jiāzhù ‹clothes, washing›; 用桩固定 yòng zhuāng gùdìng ‹tent›
② Economics 限定 xiàndìng ‹price, deficit, currency›
③ AmE colloquial (characterize) 把…看作 bǎ… kànzuò the policeman probably has us pegged as criminals 那名警察很可能把我们当成了罪犯 PHRASAL VERBS peg away intransitive verb colloquial 坚持不懈地工作 jiānchí bùxiè de gōngzuò to peg away at [something]; 兢兢业业地做某事 peg down transitive verb[peg down something/somebody, peg something/somebody down] 
① (fix in place) 用桩固定 yòng zhuāng gùdìng ‹tent, canvas, rope›
② figurative (force to be specific) 让…说定 ràng… shuōdìng ‹person›(force to make a commitment) 让…作出承诺 ràng… zuòchū chéngnuò ‹person›to peg [somebody] down to a price 让某人定好价 peg out 
A.  transitive verb[peg out something, peg something out] 
① (mark) 用界桩标出 yòng jièzhuāng biāochū ‹area of land›to peg out a claim 用界桩标出自己的土地 
② (fasten) 铺开钉住 pūkāi dìngzhù ‹animal skin›
B.  intransitive verb slang (die) 断气 duànqì 
peg 
peɡ

▶noun
1 a short cylindrical piece of wood, metal, or plastic, typically tapered at one end, that is used for holding things together, hanging things on, or marking a position. 
• (also tent peg) a pin or bolt driven into the ground to hold one of the ropes or corners of a tent in position. 
• a short pin or cylindrical object in the neck of a stringed musical instrument around which the strings are wound, and which are turned to adjust their tension and so tune the instrument. 
• a bung for stoppering a cask. 
• informal a person's leg. 
• a point or limit on a scale, especially of exchange rates.
2 chiefly Indian a measure of liquor: have a peg of whiskey.
3 informal a strong throw, especially in baseball. 
▶verb (pegs, pegging, pegged)
1 [with object] fix or make fast with a peg or pegs: drape individual plants with nets, pegging down the edges.
2 [with object] fix (a price, rate, or amount) at a particular level. 
• informal, chiefly North American form a fixed opinion of; categorize: the officer probably has us pegged as anarchists.
3 informal throw (a ball) hard and low, especially in baseball: the catcher pegs the ball to the first baseman. 
PHRASES
a peg to hang a matter on something used as a pretext or occasion for the discussion or treatment of a wider subject. a square peg in a round hole a person in a situation unsuited to their abilities or character. take someone down a peg or two make someone realize that they are less talented or important than they think are.PHRASAL VERBS peg away informal continue working hard at or trying to achieve something, especially over a long period. peg out
1 informal, chiefly British die.
2 score the winning point at cribbage.
3 Croquet hit the peg with the ball as the final stroke in a game. peg something out mark the boundaries of an area of land: I went out to peg out our assembly area.ORIGIN late Middle English: probably of Low German origin; compare with Dutch dialect peg ‘plug, peg.’ The verb dates from the mid 16th century.
