pencil 
BrE ˈpɛns(ə)l, ˈpɛnsɪl, AmE ˈpɛnsəl 

A.  noun 
① Countable(writing, drawing instrument) 铅笔 qiānbǐ 
② Uncountable(graphite) 铅芯 qiānxīn to write in pencil 用铅笔写 yòng qiānbǐ xiě pencil rubs out easily 铅笔写的容易擦掉 a pencil drawing/mark 铅笔画/记号 
③ Countable(pencil-shaped object) 铅笔状细长物 qiānbǐzhuàng xìchángwù an eyebrow pencil 眉笔 
④ Countablefigurative (beam) 光束 guāngshù a pencil of light 一束光 
B.  transitive verb (present participle etc. -ll- BrE, -l- AmE ) (write) 用铅笔写 yòng qiānbǐ xiě (draw) 用铅笔画 yòng qiānbǐ huà (mark) 用铅笔作记号 yòng qiānbǐ zuò jìhao PHRASAL VERB pencil in transitive verb[pencil in something, pencil something in] 
① (write down) 用铅笔写 yòng qiānbǐ xiě 
② (arrange provisionally) 临时安排 línshí ānpái let's pencil in
3 June for dinner 我们把吃饭暂定在6月3号吧 can you pencil me in for Thursday? 你把我暂时安排在星期四可以吗？ 
pencil 
ˈpensəl

▶noun an instrument for writing or drawing, consisting of a thin stick of graphite or a similar substance enclosed in a long thin piece of wood or fixed in a metal or plastic case. 
• graphite or a similar substance used as a medium for writing or drawing: the words were scribbled in pencil. 
• [usually with modifier] a cosmetic in a long thin stick, designed to be applied to a particular part of the face: an eyebrow pencil. 
• something with the shape of a pencil: a pencil of light 
[as modifier] : a long pencil beam. 
• Physics & Geometry a set of light rays, lines, etc., converging to or diverging narrowly from a single point. 
▶verb (pencils, penciling, penciled; British pencils, pencilling, pencilled) [with object] write, draw, or color (something) with a pencil: a previous owner has penciled their name inside the cover 
(as adjective penciled) : a penciled note. PHRASAL VERBS pencil something in
1 fill in an area or shape with pencil strokes: a lot of the outlines had been penciled in.
2 arrange, forecast, or note down something provisionally or tentatively: May
15 was penciled in as the date for the meeting. 
• (pencil someone in) make a provisional or tentative arrangement with or for someone: he was penciled in for surgery at the end of the month.DERIVATIVES penciler nounORIGIN Middle English (denoting a fine paintbrush): from Old French pincel, from a diminutive of Latin peniculus ‘brush,’ diminutive of penis ‘tail.’ The verb was originally (early 16th century) in the sense ‘paint with a fine brush.’
