penetrate 
BrE ˈpɛnɪtreɪt, AmE ˈpɛnəˌtreɪt 

A.  transitive verb 
① (enter, force a way through) 进入 jìnrù ‹terrain, defence›
② (pierce) 穿透 chuāntòu the needle penetrated her skin 针刺进了她的皮肤 the bullet penetrated the skull 子弹打穿了头骨 
③ (seep through) «liquid» 渗入 shènrù ‹material›
④ figurative (permeate) 渗透 shèntòu cold horror penetrated his whole being 他吓得浑身发冷 a scream penetrated the silence 一声尖叫划破了寂静 
⑤ (illuminate sth. opaque) 透过 tòuguo (see through sth. opaque) 看透 kàntòu the headlamps penetrated the fog 车前灯的光射进雾中 my eyes could not penetrate the darkness 我在黑暗中什么也看不见 
⑥ (understand) 洞察 dòngchá to penetrate a mystery 揭示奥秘 
⑦ figurative (get through to) 被…理解 bèi… lǐjiě nothing you say will penetrate his thick skull 无论你说什么他那木脑袋都听不进去 
⑧ (discover, see through) 识破 shípò ‹disguise›
⑨ (infiltrate) «spy» 打入…的内部 dǎrù… de nèibù ‹organization›
⑩ (sexually) 以阴茎插入 yǐ yīnjīng chārù 
⑪ Busn 打入 dǎrù ‹market›; 打入…的市场 dǎrù… de shìchǎng ‹country›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (enter) «person, traveller, army» 进入 jìnrù 
② (pierce) «needle, bullet, claws» 穿透 chuāntòu to penetrate through [something]; 穿透某物 
③ (seep into) 渗透 shèntòu 
④ (be understood) 被理解 bèi lǐjiě I kept telling him, but it just didn't penetrate 我不断地给他讲，但他就是听不进去 
⑤ (be perceived) 被听见 bèi tīngjiàn the noise did not penetrate into my secluded retreat 在我的隐居处没有听见那声音 
penetrate 
ˈpenəˌtrāt

▶verb [with object] succeed in forcing a way into or through (a thing): the shrapnel had penetrated his head and chest 
[no object] : tunnels that penetrate deep into the earth's core. 
• (of a man) insert the penis into the vagina or anus of (a sexual partner). 
• infiltrate (an enemy group or rival organization) in order to spy on it: they feared that their council had been penetrated by informers. 
• (of a company) begin to sell its products in (a particular market or area): Honda has succeeded in penetrating Western motorcycle markets. 
• succeed in understanding or gaining insight into (something complex or mysterious): a magician who seemed to have penetrated the mysteries of nature. 
• [no object] be fully understood or realized by someone: as his words penetrated, she saw a mental picture of him with Dawn. ORIGIN mid 16th century: from Latin penetrat- ‘placed or gone into,’ from the verb penetrare; related to penitus ‘inner.’
