penny 
BrE ˈpɛni, AmE ˈpɛni 
noun 
① BrE (abbreviation p, plural pence) 便士 biànshì a 32 pence or 32p stamp 一枚32便士的邮票 a new penny 新便士 ［面值为1/100英镑］a 5p piece 一枚5便士硬币 
② BrE History (abbreviation d, plural pence or pennies) 便士 biànshì [面值为1/12先令]it costs
6 pence or 6d 它值六便士 an old penny 旧便士 a three-penny bit 一枚3便士的硬币 a two-penny ice-cream 两便士冰激凌 
③ AmE colloquial (one-cent coin) (plural pence) 分 fēn 
④ (plural pennies) (small amount of money) 小笔钱 xiǎo bǐ qián it didn't cost him a penny! 没花他一分钱！ to be two or ten a penny especially BrE 普通得不值钱 to earn or turn an honest penny 赚正当的钱 to make or earn a quick penny 来钱快 in for a penny, in for a pound 一不做，二不休 the penny dropped especially BrE colloquial 茅塞顿开 a penny for your thoughts 你呆呆地想什么呢 to be penny wise (and) pound foolish 小事精明，大事糊涂 to spend a penny BrE colloquial euphemistic 去方便 to turn up like a bad penny colloquial 冤家路窄 not to be a penny wiser 不见得有多高明 not to have a penny to one's name 一文不名 not to have two pennies to rub together 穷得叮当响 not to get a penny 分文未继承到 take care of the pennies and the pounds will look after themselves proverb 省小钱来大钱 a penny saved is a penny gained or earned 省一文等于挣一文 to be worth every penny 物有所值 not to cost a penny 不费毫厘 → pretty 
A.  
penny 
ˈpenē

▶noun
1 North American informal a one-cent coin equal to one hundredth of a dollar. 
• (plural for separate coins pennies, for a sum of money pence 
pens
) (abbreviation p) a British bronze coin and monetary unit equal to one hundredth of a pound. 
• (abbreviation d) a former British coin and monetary unit equal to one twelfth of a shilling and one 240th of a pound. 
• (pennies) a small sum of money: in the current economic situation any chance to save a few pennies is welcome. 
• (in biblical use) a denarius.
2 [with negative] (a penny) used for emphasis to denote no money at all: we didn't get paid a penny. 
PHRASES
be two (or ten) a penny chiefly British be plentiful or easily obtained and consequently of little value. pinch (or count or watch) (one's) pennies be careful about how much one spends: he is pinching pennies to save for a movie 
she's been watching her pennies. in for a penny, in for a pound used to express someone's intention to complete an enterprise once it has been undertaken, however much time, effort, or money this entails. look after the pennies and the pounds will look after themselves proverb if you concentrate on saving small amounts of money, you'll soon amass a large amount. pennies from heaven unexpected benefits, especially financial ones. the penny dropped informal, chiefly British used to indicate that someone has finally realized or understood something. a penny for your thoughts used to ask someone what they are thinking about. a pretty penny a considerable amount of money: old Sid charged a pretty penny for his services. spend a penny see spend. ORIGIN Old English penig, penning, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch penning,German Pfennig, perhaps also to pawn2 and (with reference to shape) pan1 .
