people 
BrE ˈpiːp(ə)l, AmE ˈpipəl 

A.  noun (of nation) 人民 rénmín (of race) 民族 mínzú (of tribe) 族群 zúqún (of community) 民众 mínzhòng the primitive peoples of the Early Stone Age 早期石器时代的原始民族 the English-speaking people(s) 说英语的民族 the chosen people 上帝的选民 
B.  noun plural 
① (persons) 人们 rénmen old/young/average people 老年人/年轻人/普通人 important/several/other people 要人/几个人/其他人 you people 你们这些人 
② (inhabitants) 居民 jūmín the British people 英国人 the people of Winchester 温切斯特人 city/country people 城里人/乡下人 
③ (experts) 业界人士 yèjiè rénshì technical/medical people 技术/医学界人士 
④ (citizens) the people 公民 gōngmín the will of the people 人民的意志 rénmín de yìzhì the people at large 公众 gōngzhòng the People's (Democratic) Republic 人民（民主）共和国 rénmín (mínzhǔ) gònghéguó 
⑤ (ordinary persons) the people 百姓 bǎixìng the common people 普通人 pǔtōngrén a man of the people 得民心的人 dé mínxīn de rén 
⑥ (subjects of ruler) 臣民 chénmín ; (supporters of ruler) 支持者 zhīchízhě 
⑦ dated colloquial (parents) 父母 fùmǔ (relatives) 亲人 qīnrén my people come from Yorkshire 我的家人是约克郡人 
C.  transitive verb 居住在 jūzhù zài ‹town, country, planet›weird creatures that peopled his nightmares 他噩梦中的怪物 a remote area peopled with nomadic tribesmen 游牧部落居住的偏远地区 
people 
ˈpēpəl

▶pl. noun
1 human beings in general or considered collectively: the earthquake killed 30,000 people. 
• (the people) the citizens of a country, especially when considered in relation to those who govern them: his economic reforms no longer have the support of the people. 
• (the people) those without special rank or position in society; the populace: he is very much a man of the people. 
• (one's people) a person's parents or relatives: my people live in West Virginia. 
• (one's people) the supporters or employees of a person in a position of power or authority: I've had my people watching the house for some time now. 
• (the People) US the state prosecution in a trial: pretrial statements made by the People's witnesses.
2 (plural peoples) [treated as singular or plural] the men, women, and children of a particular nation, community, or ethnic group: the native peoples of Canada. 
▶verb [with object] (usually be peopled) (of a particular group of people) inhabit (an area or place): an arid mountain region peopled by warring clans. 
• fill or be present in (a place, environment, or domain): the street is peopled with ragamuffin hippies. 
• fill (an area or place) with a particular group of inhabitants: it was his intention to people the town with English colonists. DERIVATIVES peoplehood 
-ˌho͝od 
noun people ( sense
2 of the noun) ORIGIN Middle English: from Anglo-Norman French poeple, from Latin populus ‘populace.’ usage: See usage at person .
