performance 
BrE pəˈfɔːm(ə)ns, AmE pərˈfɔrməns 
noun 
① Countable(for entertainment) 表演 biǎoyǎn to give or put on a performance; 进行演出 a live performance 现场演出 a benefit/gala performance 慈善/庆典演出 
② Countable(manner or performing) 表现 biǎoxiàn he won a medal for his fine performance in the Olympics 他在奥运会上表现良好获得了一枚奖牌 his performance of King Lear left me cold 他演的李尔王没有打动我 the violinist gave a superb performance 小提琴家进行了精彩的演奏 his performance in the test wasn't up to scratch 他考得不好 
③ Uncountable(of duties, services) 履行 lǚxíng he is meticulous in the performance of his duties 他履行职责一丝不苟 
④ Uncountable(of vehicle, engine) 性能 xìngnéng 
⑤ UncountableBusn, Finance 业绩 yèjì the performance of the economy 经济状况 
⑥ Uncountablecolloquial (exaggerated behaviour) 夸张的行为 kuāzhāng de xíngwéi (disgraceful behaviour) 丢脸的行为 diūliǎn de xíngwéi what on earth did she mean by that performance in the cafe? 她在咖啡馆里那么丢人现眼到底是什么意思？ 
⑦ Uncountablecolloquial (fuss) 忙乱 mángluàn what a performance! 真够忙乱的！ starting up this old car is a bit of a performance 发动这辆旧车真是有些麻烦 
performance 
pərˈfôrməns

▶noun
1 an act of staging or presenting a play, concert, or other form of entertainment: Don Giovanni had its first performance in 1787. 
• a person's rendering of a dramatic role, song, or piece of music: Bailey gives a sound performance as the doctor. 
• [in singular] informal a display of exaggerated behavior or a process involving a great deal of unnecessary time and effort; a fuss: he stopped to tie his shoe and seemed to be making quite a performance of it.
2 the action or process of carrying out or accomplishing an action, task, or function: the continual performance of a single task reduces a man to the level of a machine. 
• an action, task, or operation, seen in terms of how successfully it was performed: pay increases are now being linked more closely to performance 
a dynamic performance by Davis. 
• the capabilities of a machine, vehicle, or product, especially when observed under particular conditions: the hardware is put through tests that assess the performance of the processor. 
• the extent to which an investment is profitable, especially in relation to other investments: unit-trust performance. 
• (also linguistic performance) Linguistics an individual's use of a language, i.e., what a speaker actually says, including hesitations, false starts, and errors. Often contrasted with competence. 
