perfect 
A.  /BrE ˈpəːfɪkt, AmE ˈpərfɪkt
adjective 
① (flawless) 完美的 wánměi de to be in perfect condition 状况极佳 nobody's perfect 人无完人 he speaks perfect English 他讲一口地道的英语 a perfect crime 一桩无头案 
② (totally precise) 精确的 jīngquè de a perfect circle 正圆 your timing is perfect 你的时机掌握得恰到好处 
③ (totally suitable) 理想的 lǐxiǎng de she's absolutely perfect for the job 她是这项工作的最佳人选 they make a perfect couple 他们是天造地设的一对 
④ (wonderful) 极好的 jí hǎo de perfect! 太好了！ 
⑤ (total) 完全的 wánquán de a perfect idiot 十足的白痴 a perfect stranger 百分之百的陌生人 
⑥ Linguistics 完成时的 wánchéngshí de the perfect tense 完成时态 
B.  /BrE ˈpəːfɪkt, AmE ˈpərfɪkt
noun the perfect 完成时 wánchéngshí 
C.  /BrE pəˈfɛkt, AmE pərˈfɛkt
transitive verb 使完美 shǐ wánměi to perfect one's French 提高法语水平 my technique is in need of perfecting 我的技巧还需完善 
perfect 
▶adjective 
ˈpərfikt 

1 having all the required or desirable elements, qualities, or characteristics; as good as it is possible to be: she strove to be the perfect wife 
life certainly isn't perfect at the moment. 
• free from any flaw or defect in condition or quality; faultless: the equipment was in perfect condition. 
• precisely accurate; exact: a perfect circle. 
• highly suitable for someone or something; exactly right: Gary was perfect for her—ten years older and with his own career. 
• Printing denoting a way of binding books in which pages are glued to the spine rather than sewn together. 
• dated thoroughly trained in or conversant with: she was perfect in French.
2 [attributive] absolute; complete (used for emphasis): a perfect stranger 
all that Joseph said made perfect sense to me.
3 Mathematics (of a number) equal to the sum of its positive divisors, e.g., the number 6, whose divisors (1, 2, 3) also add up to 6.
4 Grammar (of a tense) denoting a completed action or a state or habitual action that began in the past. The perfect tense is formed in English with have or has and the past participle, as in they have eaten and they have been eating (since dawn) (present perfect), they had eaten (past perfect), and they will have eaten (future perfect).
5 Botany (of a flower) having both stamens and carpels present and functional. 
• Botany denoting the stage or state of a fungus in which the sexually produced spores are formed. 
• Entomology (of an insect) fully adult and (typically) winged. 
▶verb 
pərˈfekt 
[with object] make (something) completely free from faults or defects, or as close to such a condition as possible: he's busy perfecting his bowling technique. 
• archaic bring to completion; finish. 
• complete (a printed sheet of paper) by printing the second side. 
• Law satisfy the necessary conditions or requirements for the transfer of (a gift, title, etc.): equity will not perfect an imperfect gift. 
▶noun 
ˈpərfikt 
(the perfect) Grammar the perfect tense. DERIVATIVES perfecter 
pərˈfektər 
noun. perfectibility 
pərˌfektəˈbilədē 
noun. perfectible 
pərˈfektəb(ə)l 
adjective. perfectness 
ˈpərfək(t)nəs 
nounORIGIN Middle English: from Old French perfet, from Latin perfectus ‘completed,’ from the verb perficere, from per- ‘through, completely’ + facere ‘do.’ usage: In the literal sense, perfect and unique are absolute words and should not be modified, as they often are in such phrases as most perfect, quite unique, etc. See also usage at unique .
