period 
BrE ˈpɪərɪəd, AmE ˈpɪriəd 
noun 
① (of time) 一段时间 yī duàn shíjiān a period of two years 两年时间 the incubation period of measles 麻疹的潜伏期 the post-war period 战后时期 the Victorian period 维多利亚时代 the Jurassic period 侏罗纪 
② Art 时期 shíqī Picasso's blue period 毕加索的消沉时期 
③ (of weather) 一段持续时间 yī duàn chíxù shíjiān tomorrow there will be rain and bright periods 明天是阵雨间晴 
④ (class, lesson) 课时 kèshí the Maths period 数学课 to have a free period 上自习课 
⑤ AmE (full stop) 句号 jùhào 
⑥ (menstruation) 经期 jīngqī to have one's period 来例假 
⑦ Astronomy 周期 zhōuqī 
⑧ colloquial (preventing or cutting off discussion) [用以终止谈话]I am the sole owner of the trademark — period 我是商标的唯一拥有人──就是这么回事 
⑨ Sport (of match) 局 jú 
period 
ˈpirēəd

▶noun
1 a length or portion of time: he had long periods of depression 
the ale will be available for a limited period 
the period 1977–85 
the training period is between
16 and
18 months. 
• a portion of time in the life of a person, nation, or civilization characterized by the same prevalent features or conditions: the early medieval period. 
• one of the set divisions of the day in a school allocated to a lesson or other activity. 
• each of the intervals into which the playing time of a sporting event is divided. 
• a major division of geological time that is a subdivision of an era and is itself subdivided into epochs, corresponding to a system in chronostratigraphy.
2 North American a punctuation mark (.) used at the end of a sentence or an abbreviation. 
• informal, chiefly North American added to the end of a statement to indicate that no further discussion is possible or desirable: he is the sole owner of the trademark, period.
3 Physics the interval of time between successive occurrences of the same state in an oscillatory or cyclic phenomenon, such as a mechanical vibration, an alternating current, a variable star, or an electromagnetic wave. 
• Astronomy the time taken by a celestial object to rotate around its axis, or to make one circuit of its orbit. 
• Mathematics the interval between successive equal values of a periodic function.
4 (also menstrual period) a flow of blood and other material from the lining of the uterus, lasting for several days and occurring in sexually mature women who are not pregnant at intervals of about one lunar month until the onset of menopause.
5 Chemistry a set of elements occupying an entire horizontal row in the periodic table.
6 Rhetoric a complex sentence, especially one consisting of several clauses, constructed as part of a formal speech or oration. 
• Music a complete idea, typically consisting of two or four phrases. 
▶adjective [attributive] belonging to or characteristic of a past historical time, especially in style or design: a splendid selection of period furniture. ORIGIN late Middle English (denoting the time during which something, especially a disease, runs its course): from Old French periode, via Latin from Greek periodos ‘orbit, recurrence, course,’ from peri- ‘around’ + hodos ‘way, course.’ The sense ‘portion of time’ dates from the early 17th century.
