personal 
BrE ˈpəːs(ə)n(ə)l, AmE ˈpərs(ə)n(ə)l 

A.  adjective 
① (individual) 个人的 gèrén de ‹belief, income›(private) 私人的 sīrén de ‹friend, property, possession(s)›personal liberty/insurance 人身自由/保险 to have a strong personal preference for [something] 本人非常喜欢某事物 
② (referring to character) 针对个人的 zhēnduì gèrén de ‹comment, insult›don't be so personal! 不要这样搞人身攻击！ 
③ (for a particular person) 给个人的 gěi gèrén de a letter marked ‘personal’ 标有“私人”字样的信件 
④ (relating to the body) 外表的 wàibiǎo de ‹beauty›; 身体的 shēntǐ de ‹cleanliness, freshness›one's personal appearance 长相 
⑤ attributive (done in person) 亲自的 qīnzì de to pay [somebody] a personal visit 亲自拜访某人 
⑥ attributive Linguistics 人称的 rénchēng de 
B.  personals noun plural AmE the personals 私人广告 sīrén guǎnggào 
personal 
ˈpərs(ə)n(ə)l

▶adjective
1 of, affecting, or belonging to a particular person rather than to anyone else: her personal fortune was recently estimated at $37 million. 
• done or made by a particular person; involving the actual presence or action of a particular individual: the president and his wife made personal appearances for the re-election of the state governor.
2 of or concerning one's private life, relationships, and emotions rather than matters connected with one's public or professional career: the book describes his acting career and gives little information about his personal life. 
• referring to an individual's character, appearance, or private life, especially in a hostile or critical way: his personal remarks about Mr. Mellor's work ethic were unprofessional 
you look like a drowned rat—nothing personal.
3 relating to a person's body: personal hygiene.
4 Grammar of or denoting one of the three persons. See person ( sense 2).
5 existing as a self-aware entity, not as an abstraction or an impersonal force: he rejected the notion of a personal God. 
▶noun chiefly North American an advertisement or message in the personal column of a newspaper; personal ad. 
• (personals) another term for personal column. ORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French, from Latin personalis ‘of a person,’ from persona (see person) .
