perspective 
BrE pəˈspɛktɪv, AmE pərˈspɛktɪv 
noun 
① Uncountable(in art) 透视法 tòushìfǎ to draw [something] in perspective 用透视法画某物 the castle is out of perspective with the other buildings 城堡与其他建筑不成比例 
② Countable(attitude, point of view) 观点 guāndiǎn to see things from a religious perspective 从宗教的角度看待事物 
③ Uncountable(sense of proportion) 权衡轻重的能力 quánhéng qīngzhòng de nénglì to have a sense of perspective; 明察事理 to get or put [something] in or into perspective; 正确处理某事 you have to keep things in perspective; 处理事情要分轻重缓急 to see/judge [something] in perspective; 合理地看待/评价某事物 
perspective 
pərˈspektiv

▶noun
1 the art of drawing solid objects on a two-dimensional surface so as to give the right impression of their height, width, depth, and position in relation to each other when viewed from a particular point: [as modifier] : a perspective drawing. See also linear perspective and aerial perspective. 
• a picture drawn in perspective, especially one appearing to enlarge or extend the actual space, or to give the effect of distance. 
• a view or prospect. 
• Geometry the relation of two figures in the same plane, such that pairs of corresponding points lie on concurrent lines, and corresponding lines meet in collinear points.
2 a particular attitude toward or way of regarding something; a point of view: most guidebook history is written from the editor's perspective. 
• true understanding of the relative importance of things; a sense of proportion: we must keep a sense of perspective about what he's done.
3 an apparent spatial distribution in perceived sound. 
PHRASES
in (or out of) perspective showing the right (or wrong) relationship between visible objects. 
• correctly (or incorrectly) regarded in terms of relative importance: these expenses may seem high, but they need to be put into perspective.DERIVATIVES perspectival 
-tivəl 
adjectiveORIGIN late Middle English (in the sense ‘optics’): from medieval Latin perspectiva (ars)‘science of optics,’ from perspect- ‘looked at closely,’ from the verb perspicere, from per- ‘through’ + specere ‘to look.’
