person 
BrE ˈpəːs(ə)n, AmE ˈpərs(ə)n 
noun 
① (plural people or formal persons) (human being) 人 rén the average English person 普通英国人 stolen by person or persons unknown Law 遭身份不明的人偷窃 the person or persons concerned 当事人 to do [something] in person; 亲自做某事 the company had a great asset in the person of the stage manager 舞台监督是这家剧团的顶梁柱 
② (type, individual) 有特定爱好的人 yǒu tèdìng àihào de rén I'm a tea person myself 我本人是个喜欢喝茶的人 she's a cat person 她是个爱猫的人 
③ (body) 身体 shēntǐ to have or carry [something] on or about one's person 随身携带某物 with drugs concealed about his person 他身上藏有毒品 offences against the person Law 人身攻击 
④ Linguistics 人称 rénchēng the first person singular 第一人称单数 the second person plural 第二人称复数 
person 
ˈpərs(ə)n

▶noun (plural people 
ˈpēpəl
or persons)
1 a human being regarded as an individual: the porter was the last person to see her 
she is a person of astonishing energy. 
• used in legal or formal contexts to refer to an unspecified individual: the entrance fee is $10.00 per person. 
• [in singular with modifier] an individual characterized by a preference or liking for a specified thing: she's not a cat person. 
• an individual's body: I have publicity photographs on my person at all times. 
• a character in a play or story: his previous roles in the person of a fallible cop.
2 Grammar a category used in the classification of pronouns, possessive determiners, and verb forms, according to whether they indicate the speaker (first person), the addressee (second person), or a third party (third person).
3 Christian Theology each of the three modes of being of God, namely the Father, the Son, or the Holy Spirit, who together constitute the Trinity. 
PHRASES
be one's own person do or be what one wishes or in accordance with one's own character rather than as influenced by others. in person with the personal presence or action of the individual specified: he had to pick up his welfare check in person. in the person of in the physical form of: trouble arrived in the person of a short, mustached Berliner.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French persone, from Latin persona ‘actor's mask, character in a play,’ later ‘human being.’ usage: The words people and persons can both be used as the plural of person, but they are not used in exactly the same way. People is by far the more common of the two words and is used in most ordinary contexts: a group of people; there were only about ten people; several thousand people have been rehoused. Persons, on the other hand, tends now to be restricted to official or formal contexts, as in this vehicle is authorized to carry twenty persons; no persons admitted without a pass. In some contexts, persons, by pointing to the individual, may sound less friendly than people: the number should not be disclosed to any unauthorized persons.
