pick 
BrE pɪk, AmE pɪk 

A.  transitive verb 
① (choose, select) 挑选 tiāoxuǎn ‹object, colour›; 选择 xuǎnzé ‹candidate, place›have you picked a name for the baby yet? 你给宝宝取名了吗？ to be picked for the Olympic Games 入选参加奥运会 to pick the winner Horse racing 投注获胜的马 he certainly or sure knows how to pick them! colloquial 他可真会选！ to pick a fight (with [somebody]) （向某人）挑衅 to pick one's way 择路而行 
② (pluck, gather) 采摘 cǎizhāi ‹flowers, vegetables›we picked apples from or off the trees 我们从树上摘苹果 
③ (grasp and move) 拿起 náqǐ to pick a book off the shelf 从书架上取下书 I picked all the cherries off the top of the cake 我拣走了蛋糕顶上所有的樱桃 a helicopter picked him off his boat 一架直升机把他从船上吊了起来 she picked the baby out of his pram 她把婴儿从婴儿车里抱了出来 
④ (poke at) 剔 tī to pick one's teeth/nose 剔牙/挖鼻孔 don't pick your spot/scab 不要抠粉刺/结痂 to pick [something] off; 去除某物 to pick a hole in [something] 把某物抠出一个洞 to pick holes in [something] figurative 寻找某事的漏洞 
⑤ (steal from) to pick [somebody's] pocket 掏某人的兜儿 tāo mǒu rén de dōur 
⑥ (work open) 撬开 qiàokāi ‹lock›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (choose) 挑选 tiāoxuǎn to pick and choose 精挑细选 
② (poke) 戳 chuō the hens were picking about 母鸡到处啄食 don't pick! 别抠！ 
C.  noun 
① (tool) (for breaking up hard ground) 鹤嘴锄 hèzuǐchú (used by climber, geologist) 尖嘴镐 jiānzuǐgǎo 
② singular (choice) 选择 xuǎnzé to take one's pick 进行挑选 to have one's pick of [something] 有某事物的选择权 
③ colloquial (best person) 精英 jīngyīng ; (best thing) 精品 jīngpǐn the pick of [something]; 某事物中的极品 PHRASAL VERBS pick at 
A.  [pick at something] transitive verb 
① (eat in small amounts) 小口吃 xiǎo kǒu chī ‹food, meal›
② (poke at) 抠 kōu ‹scab, sore›; (pull) 扯 chě ‹fabric›
B.  [pick at somebody] transitive verb especially AmE = pick on 
① pick off transitive verb[pick somebody off, pick off somebody] 单独射杀 dāndú shèshā ‹person, animal›pick on transitive verb 
① [pick on somebody] (victimize) 欺负 qīfu ; (criticize) 数落 shǔluo pick on someone your own size! 别以大欺小！ 
② [pick on somebody/something] (select) 选中 xuǎnzhòng ‹person, item›to pick on [somebody] to do [something]; 选中某人做某事 to pick on [somebody] for [something]; 为某事选中某人 pick out transitive verb[pick somebody/something out, pick out somebody/something] 
① (select) 选中 xuǎnzhòng 
② (make out, distinguish) 分辨出 fēnbiàn chū ‹distant object, landmark›; 认出 rènchū ‹person, suspect›you can just pick out the church tower 你刚刚能看得见教堂塔楼 
③ Music 慢慢弹奏出 mànmàn tánzòu chū ‹tune, melody›
④ (highlight) 突出显示 tūchū xiǎnshì the title was picked out in bold type 标题采用粗体字加以突出 letters picked out in red on a black background 黑色背景下醒目的红字 
⑤ (illuminate) «light, torch» 照见 zhàojiàn ‹person, object›pick over transitive verb[pick something over, pick over something] 挑拣 tiāojiǎn ‹articles, rubbish›; 挑选 tiāoxuǎn ‹lentils, fruit, raisins›pick up 
A.  [pick somebody/something up, pick up somebody/something] transitive verb 
① (lift, take hold of) 拿起 náqǐ ‹object›; 抱起 bàoqǐ ‹child›; 捡起 jiǎnqǐ ‹litter›if you need me, just pick up the telephone 如果需要帮忙，就给我打电话 to pick up the pieces 收拾残局 to pick up the tab or bill 付账 
② (take on board) 搭载 dāzài ‹hitch-hiker, passenger›; 装载 zhuāngzài ‹supplies, cargo›
③ (collect) 取回 qǔhuí ‹dry-cleaning, ticket, keys›; 接 jiē ‹person›my father's picking me up at the airport/station 我父亲要来机场/车站接我 
④ (illuminate) «person, light» 照见 zhàojiàn ‹person, animal, object›; (focus on) «camera» 聚焦于 jùjiāo yú ‹person, animal, object›
B.  [pick something up, pick up something] transitive verb 
① (buy) 买到 mǎidào to pick up a casual/hasty purchase 随便/匆忙买点东西 she picked the trousers up for a fiver 她花5英镑买了条裤子 
② (learn, acquire) 学会 xuéhuì ‹language›; 掌握 zhǎngwò ‹knowledge, skill›; 养成 yǎngchéng ‹habit›
③ Medicine 患上 huàn shang to pick up a fever/chill 发烧/着凉 
④ Radio, Telecommunications 接收 jiēshōu ‹broadcast, message, signal›the train picks up current from the live rail 火车从带电铁轨中取电 
⑤ (notice, register) «person, device, sensor» 发现 fāxiàn ‹fault, defect, sign›; «person» 走上 zǒu shang ‹route›to pick up a hint 领悟暗示 to pick up the sound of [something] 听见某物的声音 to pick up the road/motorway 开上公路/高速公路 to pick up a scent/trail 嗅到气味/发现踪迹 
⑥ (resume) 恢复 huīfù ‹career, relationship›I'd like to pick up the point that Dave made earlier 我想回到戴夫先前提出的论点 
⑦ (gain, earn) 获得 huòdé ‹award, qualification›
⑧ (increase) 加快 jiākuài ‹speed›
C.  [pick somebody up, pick up somebody] transitive verb 
① (rescue) «person, helicopter, ship» 解救 jiějiù ‹survivor, casualty›
② colloquial especially pejorative (strike up relationship with) 与…勾搭 yǔ… gōuda he picked her up in the pub/at a dance 他在酒吧/舞会上搭上了她 
③ colloquial (arrest) 抓获 zhuāhuò ‹suspect, wanted person›
④ (find fault with) 挑…的毛病 tiāo… de máobìng to pick [somebody] up on [something]; 在某事上找某人的碴子 
⑤ (make feel better) «medicine, treatment» 使好转 shǐ hǎozhuǎn ; «food» 使恢复精力 shǐ huīfù jīnglì ; «drink» 给…提神 gěi… tíshén 
D.  intransitive verb 
① (improve) «trade, business» 改善 gǎishàn ; «invalid, weather» 好转 hǎozhuǎn 
② (increase) «speed» 提高 tígāo ; «activity» 增加 zēngjiā the wind has picked up 风大了起来 
③ (resume) «person» 重新开始 chóngxīn kāishǐ ; «machine» 重新启动 chóngxīn qǐdòng to pick up on [something]; 重提 ‹point, remark› 恢复 huīfù ‹attitude, atmosphere›
④ (take a call) 接听 jiētīng 
⑤ especially AmE colloquial (tidy up) 收拾 shōushi to pick up after [somebody]; 跟在某人后面收拾 
E.  reflexive verb to pick oneself up; (get up) ［跌倒后] 爬起来 figurative (recover) 振作 zhènzuò she picked herself up after the divorce 她从离婚打击中恢复过来 
pick
1 
pik

▶verb
1 [with object] take hold of and remove (a flower, fruit, or vegetable) from where it is growing: I went to pick some flowers for Jenny's room 
(as adjective with submodifier picked) : freshly picked mushrooms. 
• take hold of and lift or move: he picked a match out of the box 
picking her up, he carried her into the next room. 
• [no object] (pick up) Golf lift up one's ball, especially when conceding a hole.
2 [with object] choose (someone or something) from a number of alternatives, typically after careful thought: maybe I picked the wrong career after all 
she left Jed to pick out some toys 
[no object] : this time, I get to pick. 
• (pick one's way) [with adverbial of direction] walk slowly and carefully, selecting the best or safest places to put one's feet: he picked his way along the edge of the track, avoiding the potholes.
3 [no object] repeatedly pull at something with one's fingers: the old woman was picking at the sheet. 
• [with object] make (a hole) in fabric by pulling at it with one's fingers: she picked a hole in her tights. 
• eat food or a meal in small amounts or without much appetite: she picked at her breakfast. 
• [with object] remove unwanted matter from (one's nose or teeth) by using one's finger or a pointed instrument. 
• criticize someone in a petty way: now, please don't start picking at Ruth.
4 [with object] pluck the strings of (a guitar or banjo). 
• (pick something out) play a tune on a guitar or banjo slowly or with difficulty: she began to pick out a rough melody on the guitar. 
▶noun
1 [in singular] an act or the right of selecting something from among a group of alternatives: take your pick from our extensive menu 
Laura should have first pick. 
• (the pick of) informal the person or thing perceived as the best in a particular group: he was the pick of the bunch. 
• someone or something that has been selected: the club made him their first pick.
2 Basketball an act of blocking or screening a defensive player from the ball handler, allowing an open shot. 
PHRASES
pick and choose select only the best or most desirable from among a number of alternatives. pick someone's brains (or brain) informal obtain information by questioning someone who is better informed about a subject than oneself.pick something clean completely remove the flesh from a bone or carcass. pick one's feet up raise one's feet clear of the ground when walking. pick a fight (or quarrel) talk or behave in such a way as to provoke an argument or fight.pick holes in find fault with. pick a lock open a lock with an instrument other than the proper key. pick someone's pockets steal something surreptitiously from another person's pocket. pick someone/something to pieces (or apart) criticize someone or something severely and in detail.pick up the pieces restore one's life or a situation to a more normal state, typically after a shock or disaster. pick up the threads resume something that has been interrupted.PHRASAL VERBS pick someone/something off shoot a member of a group of people or things, aiming carefully from a distance. 
• Baseball put out a runner by a pickoff. pick on repeatedly single (someone) out for blame, criticism, or unkind treatment in a way perceived to be unfair. pick someone/something out distinguish someone or something among a group of people or things: Lester picked out two familiar voices. 
• (of a light) illuminate an object by shining directly on it. 
• (usually be picked out) distinguish shapes or letters from their surroundings by painting or fashioning them in a contrasting color or medium: the initials are picked out in diamonds. pick something over (or pick through) examine or sort through a number of items carefully: they picked through the charred remains of their home.pick up become better; improve: my luck's picked up. 
• become stronger; increase: the wind has picked up. pick oneself up stand up again after a fall. pick someone up go somewhere to collect someone, typically in one's car and according to a prior arrangement. 
• stop for someone and take them into one's vehicle or vessel. 
• informal arrest someone. 
• informal casually strike up a relationship with someone one has never met before, as a sexual overture. 
• make someone feel more energetic and cheerful: songs to pick you up and make you feel good. pick something up
1 collect something that has been left elsewhere: Wanda came over to pick up her things. 
• informal pay the bill for something, especially when others have contributed to the expense: as usual, we had to pick up the tab. 
• North American tidy a room or building.
2 obtain, acquire, or learn something, especially without formal arrangements or instruction: he had picked up a little Russian from his father. 
• catch an illness or infection.
3 detect or receive a signal or sound, especially by means of electronic apparatus. 
• (also pick up on) become aware of or sensitive to something: she is very quick to pick up emotional atmospheres. 
• find and take a particular road or route.
4 (also pick up) resume something: they picked up their friendship without the slightest difficulty. 
• (also pick up on) refer to or develop a point or topic mentioned earlier: Dawson picked up her earlier remark. 
• (of an object or color) attractively accentuate the color of something else by being of a similar shade. pick up after chiefly US tidy up things left strewn around by (someone).DERIVATIVES pickable 
ˈpikəbəl 
adjectiveORIGIN Middle English (earlier as pike, which continues in dialect use): of unknown origin. Compare with Dutch pikken ‘pick, peck,’ and German picken ‘peck, puncture,’ also with French piquer ‘to prick.’
