picture 
BrE ˈpɪktʃə, AmE ˈpɪk(t)ʃər 

A.  noun 
① (visual depiction) 图画 túhuà to paint or draw a picture of [somebody]/[something] 绘制某人/某物的画像 family pictures 亲族画像 the book is almost all pictures and no text 这本书里几乎都是插图，没有文字 
② Photography 照片 zhàopiàn to take a picture of [something]/[somebody] 给某物/某人拍照 
③ Television 图像 túxiàng 
④ Cinema 电影 diànyǐng to make a picture 拍摄电影 it won several awards, including 'best picture' 它获得了好几个奖项，包括最佳影片奖 
⑤ (mental image) 印象 yìnxiàng to be the picture of health 显得非常健康 he's the picture of his father dated 他长得酷似他父亲 
⑥ figurative (description) 描述 miáoshù to give or present a vivid/accurate picture of [something] 生动/准确地描述某物 to paint or draw a bleak/gloomy/optimistic picture of [something] 把某物描绘得一片暗淡/惨淡/光明 
⑦ (overview) 情形 qíngxing that's only part of the picture 那只是部分情况 to get the picture colloquial 明白 to be in the picture 了解情况 to put or keep [somebody] in the picture 让某人了解情况 
⑧ (beautiful sight) 美景 měijǐng (unusual sight) 不寻常的景色 bù xúncháng de jǐngsè to be or look a picture 漂亮 her face was a picture! 她显得非常震惊！ 
B.  pictures noun plural 
① especially BrE (cinema show) the pictures 电影院 diànyǐngyuàn to go to the pictures 去看电影 qù kàn diànyǐng what's on at the pictures? 电影院在上映什么影片？ 
② (film industry) 电影业 diànyǐngyè to be in the pictures 从事电影业 
C.  transitive verb 
① (represent in picture) 在照片上显示 zài zhàopiàn shang xiǎnshì ‹person, scene, place›
② (form mental image of) 想象 xiǎngxiàng ‹person, scene, situation›
③ (describe) 描写 miáoxiě ‹person, series of events›
picture 
ˈpik(t)SHər

▶noun a painting or drawing: draw a picture of a tree. 
• a photograph: we were warned not to take pictures. 
• a portrait: have her picture painted. 
• archaic a person or thing resembling another closely: she is the very picture of her mother. 
• an impression of something formed from an account or description: a full picture of the disaster had not yet emerged. 
• an image on a television screen. 
• a movie: it took five honors, including best picture. 
• (the pictures) the movies: I'm going to the pictures with my buddies. 
▶verb [with object] represent (someone or something) in a photograph or picture: he is pictured with party guests. 
• describe (someone or something) in a certain way: the markets in London and New York are usually pictured in contrasting terms. 
• form a mental image of: she pictured Benjamin waiting. 
PHRASES
be in pictures chiefly North American act in movies or work in the motion-picture industry. be (or look) a picture be very pleasing to look at. the big (or bigger or larger) picture informal the situation as a whole: he's so involved in the minutiae that he often overlooks the big picture. get the picture informal understand a situation. in the picture fully informed about something. out of the picture no longer involved; irrelevant: hostages were better left out of the picture. the (or a) picture of —— the embodiment of a specified state or emotion: she looked the picture of forbearance. (as) pretty as a picture very pretty.ORIGIN late Middle English: from Latin pictura, from pict- ‘painted’ (from the verb pingere).
