pig 
BrE pɪɡ, AmE pɪɡ 

A.  noun 
① Countable(domesticated animal) 猪 zhū to buy a pig in a poke 未看货就买下 pigs might fly! BrE ironic 猪也会飞了！ ［表示完全不可信］to live like pigs 邋遢地生活 in a pig's eye! especially AmE colloquial 鬼才信呢！ to make a pig's ear (out) of [something] BrE colloquial 把某事物弄得一团糟 pig in the middle especially BrE → piggy 
A.  to be in pig «sow» 怀胎 the pig family 猪科 
② Countable(wild animal) 野猪 yězhū to bleed like a stuck pig 血流如注 to go pig-sticking 去打野猪 
③ Uncountable(as meat) 猪肉 zhūròu 
④ Countablecolloquial pejorative (objectionable, dirty person) 肮脏的人 āngzāng de rén (unpleasant, greedy person) 贪婪的人 tānlán de rén to make a pig of oneself (eat excessively) 大吃大喝 (overindulge) 过分放纵自己 
⑤ Countablepejorative (police officer) the pigs 猪猡 ［对警察的蔑称］zhūluó 
⑥ Countable BrE colloquial (difficult task) 苦差事 kǔchāishi a pig of a job 棘手的工作 
⑦ Uncountable = pig iron 
⑧ Countable(oblong mass of iron or lead) 铸块 zhù kuài 
B.  transitive verbcolloquial 
① (live in squalor) to pig it 过猪一般的邋遢生活 guò zhū yībān de lāta shēnghuó 
② (gorge oneself) to pig it 狼吞虎咽地吃 láng tūn hǔ yàn de chī 
C.  reflexive verb colloquial to pig oneself (on [something]); 狼吞虎咽地吃（某物） láng tūn hǔ yàn de chī(mǒu wù) PHRASAL VERB pig out intransitive verb colloquial 狼吞虎咽地吃 láng tūn hǔ yàn de chī to pig out on [something]; 狼吞虎咽地吃某物 
pig 
piɡ

▶noun
1 an omnivorous domesticated hoofed mammal with sparse bristly hair and a flat snout for rooting in the soil, kept for its meat. Chester white pig [Sus domesticus (with numerous varieties), family Suidae (the pig family), descended from the wild boar and domesticated over 8,000 years ago. The pig family also includes the warthog and babirusa, but the similar peccaries are placed in their own family.] 
• a wild animal of the pig family. 
• North American a young pig; a piglet. 
• the flesh of a pig, especially a young one, as food. 
• informal, derogatory a greedy, dirty, or unpleasant person: how can she stay married to such a pig? 
• informal, derogatory a police officer.
2 an oblong mass of iron or lead from a smelting furnace. See also pig iron. 
• a device that fits snugly inside an oil or gas pipeline and is sent through it to clean or test the inside, or to act as a barrier. 
▶verb (pigs, pigging, pigged) [no object]
1 informal gorge oneself with food: don't pig out on chips before dinner.
2 informal crowd together with other people in disorderly or dirty conditions: he and Irving pigged it for years in a shoebox of an apartment 
I have no intention of pigging with that bunch for another day.
3 (of a sow) give birth to piglets; farrow.
4 operate a pig within an oil or gas pipeline. 
PHRASES
bleed like a pig bleed copiously. in pig (of a sow) pregnant. in a pig's eye informal, chiefly North American expressing scornful disbelief at a statement. make a pig of oneself informal overeat; eat more than one's share. make a pig's ear of British informal handle ineptly. a pig in a poke something that is bought or accepted without knowing its value or seeing it first. [with reference to the formerly common trick of selling a cat concealed in a bag to someone who was expecting a pig.] put lipstick on a pig informal make superficial changes to something regarded with dislike or disfavor in a fruitless attempt to make it more appealing: any attempt to revise the bill would amount to putting lipstick on a pig. squeal like a pig squeal or yell loudly and shrilly. sweat like a pig informal sweat profusely.DERIVATIVES piglike 
ˈpigˌlīk 
adjective. pigling 
ˈpigliNG 
nounORIGIN Middle English: probably from an Old English word represented in picbrēd ‘acorn,’ literally ‘pig food.’
