pipe 
BrE pʌɪp, AmE paɪp 

A.  noun 
① (conduit) 管子 guǎnzi a sewage pipe 污水管 to have a burst/leaking/blocked pipe 管子爆裂/渗漏/堵塞 
② (for smoking) 烟斗 yāndǒu to puff on one's pipe 抽烟斗 to fill/light a pipe 填装/点烟斗 stick that in your pipe and smoke it! colloquial 这事由不得你！ 
③ (amount of tobacco) 一斗烟 yī dǒu yān I smoke or have three pipes a day 我每天抽三斗烟 
④ Music (in organ) [管风琴的] 音管 yīnguǎn 
⑤ Music (wind instrument) 管乐器 guǎnyuèqì 
⑥ (birdsong) 鸟鸣声 niǎomíng shēng 
⑦ Nautical [水手长的] 长口哨 cháng kǒushào 
B.  pipes noun plural 风笛 fēngdí to play the pipes 吹奏风笛 
C.  transitive verb 
① (carry in pipe) 用管子输送 yòng guǎnzi shūsòng ‹gas, oil, water, sewage›piped water 自来水 
② (say) 尖声说 jiānshēng shuō ‹words›
③ (sing) 尖声唱 jiānshēng chàng ‹tune›
④ (play on pipe(s)) 用管乐器演奏 yòng guǎnyuèqì yǎnzòu ‹tune›he piped a jig 他吹奏了一首吉格舞曲 
⑤ (transmit) 播送 bōsòng ‹music, radio programme›
⑥ (trim, decorate) 为…滚边 wèi… gǔnbiān ‹cushion, collar, skirt›to pipe [something] with [something]; 用某物为某物滚边 yòng mǒu wù wèi mǒu wù gǔnbiān 
⑦ Culinary 裱 biǎo ‹cream, pattern›to pipe icing on a cake 给蛋糕裱糖霜 
⑧ Nautical to pipe [somebody] aboard; 吹奏管乐欢迎某人登船 chuīzòu guǎnyuè huānyíng mǒu rén dēng chuán 
D.  intransitive verb 
① Music 吹奏管乐 chuīzòu guǎnyuè 
② Nautical 吹长口哨 chuī cháng kǒushào 
③ (sing) «bird» 啼鸣 tímíng ; (cry) «person» 尖叫 jiānjiào PHRASAL VERBS pipe down intransitive verb colloquial 安静下来 ānjìng xiàlái pipe in transitive verb[pipe somebody/something in, pipe in somebody/something] 吹奏管乐欢迎 chuīzòu guǎnyuè huānyíng ‹guest›; 在管乐声中端上 zài guǎnyuèshēng zhōng duān shang ‹haggis, plum pudding›pipe up intransitive verb 开始尖声说话 kāishǐ jiānshēng shuōhuà to pipe up with [something]; 开始尖声说某事 
pipe 
pīp

▶noun
1 a tube of metal, plastic, or other material used to convey water, gas, oil, or other fluid substances. 
• a cylindrical vein of ore or rock, especially one in which diamonds are found. 
• a cavity in cast metal. 
• informal a duct, vessel, or tubular structure in the body, or in an animal or plant. 
• Computing a connection to the Internet or to a website.
2 a narrow tube made from wood, clay, etc., with a bowl at one end for containing burning tobacco, the smoke from which is drawn into the mouth. 
• a quantity of tobacco held by this. 
• a device for smoking illegal drugs: a crack pipe.
3 a wind instrument consisting of a single tube with holes along its length that are covered by the fingers to produce different notes: a reed pipe. 
• (usually pipes) bagpipes. 
• (pipes) a set of pipes joined together, as in panpipes. 
• a tube by which sound is produced in an organ. 
• (pipes) informal voice or vocal ability, especially of a powerful singer. 
• [in singular] a high-pitched cry or song, especially of a bird. 
• a boatswain's whistle.
4 Computing a command that causes the output from one routine to be the input for another. 
• the symbol 
.
5 a cask for wine, especially as a measure equal to two hogsheads, usually equivalent to 105 gallons (about 477 liters). 
▶verb
1 [with object] convey (water, gas, oil, or other fluid substances) through a pipe or pipes: water from the lakes is piped to several towns. 
• transmit (music, a radio or television program, signals, etc.) by wire or cable.
2 [with object] play (a tune) on a pipe or pipes. 
• [no object] (of a bird) sing in a high or shrill voice. 
• [with direct speech] say something in a high, shrill voice: “No, ma'am,” piped Lucy. 
• use a boatswain's whistle to summon (the crew) to work or a meal: the hands were piped to breakfast.
3 [with object] decorate (clothing or soft furnishings) with a thin cord covered in fabric. 
• put (a decorative line or pattern) on a cake or similar dish using icing, whipped cream, etc. 
PHRASES
put that in one's pipe and smoke it informal used to indicate that someone should accept what one has said, even if it is unwelcome.PHRASAL VERBS pipe down [often in imperative] informal stop talking; be less noisy. pipe up say something suddenly.DERIVATIVES pipeful 
ˈpīpˌfo͝ol 
noun (plural pipefuls) . pipeless adjective. pipy 
ˈpīpē 
adjective (pipier, pipiest) ORIGIN Old English pīpe ‘musical tube,’ pīpian ‘play a pipe,’ of Germanic origin; related to Dutch pijp and German Pfeife, based on Latin pipare ‘to peep, chirp,’ reinforced in Middle English by Old French piper ‘to chirp, squeak.’
