pit 
BrE pɪt, AmE pɪt 

A.  noun 
① (large hole) 深坑 shēn kēng to be at the bottom of a deep pit figurative 情绪跌入低谷 a black pit of depression 灰心沮丧的深渊 
② (indentation) 凹陷 āoxiàn the spaceship's hull was covered in tiny pits 宇宙飞船的船体上布满了坑坑洼洼的小洞 
③ Mining 矿井 kuàngjǐng ; (colliery) 煤矿 méikuàng to work at the pit 在煤矿工作 to work down the pit 在井下工作 he went down the pit when he was just
16 他16岁时就当了矿工到井下作业 a chalk/lime/clay pit 白垩/石灰/黏土矿坑 a pit closure/disaster 煤矿关闭/矿难 
④ (pockmark) 麻子 mázi 
⑤ (hollow) 窝 wō the pit of the or one's stomach 心窝 a feeling of fear/anxiety in the pit of one's stomach 深深的恐惧感/焦虑感 
⑥ Auto (at garage) the pit 检修坑 jiǎnxiūkēng 
⑦ BrE Theatre dated the pit 正厅后座区 zhèngtīng hòuzuòqū 
⑧ Finance 交易场地 jiāoyì chǎngdì a wheat pit 小麦交易场 
⑨ History (arena for animal fights) 斗兽场 dòushòuchǎng a bear/cock pit 斗熊场/斗鸡场 
⑩ especially AmE (fruit stone) 果核 guǒhé 
B.  pits noun plural 
① the pits colloquial (the worst) 最坏的东西 zuì huài de dōngxi it's the pits! 这真是糟糕透顶！ zhè zhēnshi zāogāo tòudǐng ！ 
② (in motor racing) the pits; 检修加油站 jiǎnxiū jiāyóuzhàn 
C.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -tt-) 
① (in struggle) 使…竞争 shǐ… jìngzhēng ‹competitor, team›to be pitted against [somebody] 与某人竞争 yǔ mǒu rén jìngzhēng to pit one's wits against [somebody] 与某人斗智 
② (mark) 使…有凹陷 shǐ… yǒu āoxiàn ‹surface, metal, glass›; 在…上留斑点 zài… shang liú bāndiǎn ‹skin›the disease had pitted her face with pockmarks 这场病弄得她满脸麻子 
③ (remove stone from) 去除…的核 qùchú… de hé ‹fruit, cherry, plum›
D.  reflexive verb(present participle etc. -tt-) to pit oneself against [somebody] 与某人竞争 yǔ mǒu rén jìngzhēng 
pit
1 
pit

▶noun
1 a large hole in the ground. 
• a large deep hole from which stones or minerals are dug. 
• a coal mine. 
• a sunken enclosure in which certain animals are kept in captivity. 
• short for orchestra pit (see orchestra). 
• a sunken area in a workshop floor allowing access to a car's underside. 
• a low or wretched psychological state: spiraling downward into the pit of despair. 
• (the pit) literary hell.
2 an area reserved or enclosed for a specific activity, in particular: 
• (usually pits) an area at the side of a track where race cars are serviced and refueled. 
• a part of the floor of an exchange in which a particular stock or commodity is traded, typically by open outcry. 
• chiefly historical an enclosure in which animals are made to fight.
3 a hollow or indentation in a surface. 
• a small indentation left on the skin after smallpox, acne, or other diseases; a pockmark. 
▶verb (pits, pitting, pitted) [with object]
1 (pit someone/something against) set someone or something in conflict or competition with: a chance to pit herself against him. 
• historical set an animal to fight against (another animal) for sport. [because formerly set against each other in a ‘pit’ or enclosure.]
2 make a hollow or indentation in the surface of: rain poured down, pitting the bare earth. 
• [no object] sink in or contract so as to form a pit or hollow.
3 [no object] drive a race car into the pits for fuel or maintenance. 
PHRASES
be the pits informal be extremely bad or the worst of its kind. the pit of one's (or the) stomach an ill-defined region of the lower abdomen regarded as the seat of strong feelings, especially anxiety.ORIGIN Old English pytt; related to Dutch put and German Pfütze, based on Latin puteus ‘well, shaft.’
