pitch
1 
BrE pɪtʃ, AmE pɪtʃ 

A.  noun 
① Countable BrE Sport (playing area) 场地 chǎngdì a football/rugby/hockey/cricket pitch 足球场/橄榄球场/曲棍球场/板球场 on/off the pitch 在场上/场下 
② Uncountable(sound quality of note or voice) 音高 yīngāo to rise in pitch 提高声调 a note of a higher/lower pitch 音调较高/较低的音符 
③ Countablesingular (degree of intensity) 强度 qiángdù (high or climactic degree) 顶点 dǐngdiǎn a pitch of tension/anticipation/terror 紧张/期待/恐惧的程度 to be at one's (highest) or at full pitch 达到极点 
④ Countable BrE (stand) (for street trader) 摊位 tānwèi (for street entertainer) 表演地点 biǎoyǎn dìdiǎn 
⑤ Countable(sales talk) 宣传用语 xuānchuán yòngyǔ a sales/campaign pitch 推销用语/竞选口号 to make one's pitch 作自我宣传 to make a pitch for [something]/[somebody] 宣传鼓吹某事物/勾引某人 
⑥ UncountableNautical, Aviation (movement) 颠簸 diānbǒ 
⑦ Countable(in baseball) (act of throwing) 投球 tóuqiú (manner of throwing) 投球方法 tóuqiú fāngfǎ the pitch was easily hit 投出的球被轻易击中了 
⑧ Countable(in cricket) 弹跳点 tántiàodiǎn 
⑨ Countable(in golf) 下旋高球 xiàxuán gāoqiú 
⑩ Countable(slope of roof) 斜度 xiédù 
⑪ Countable(in mountaineering) 斜坡 xiépō to climb the most difficult pitch 爬最难攀爬的坡段 
B.  transitive verb 
① (throw) 投掷 tóuzhì ‹object, ball, stone›the explosion pitched her into the air 爆炸把她抛向空中 the new government has already been pitched into a crisis 新政府已经陷入危机 
② (set, aim) 确定…的标准 quèdìng… de biāozhǔn ‹price›; 确定…的目标市场 quèdìng… de mùbiāo shìchǎng ‹campaign, advertising, film, product›; 使…有针对性 shǐ… yǒu zhēnduìxìng ‹textbook, lecture›to pitch [something] at [somebody]; 使某事物针对某人 a newspaper/programme pitched at young people 面向年轻人的报纸/节目 the exam was pitched at a high level 考试标准定得很高 to pitch one's ambitions too high 把目标定得过高 to pitch [something] a bit strong or high 对某事物夸大其词 
③ Music (set at particular modulation) 为…定音高 wèi… dìng yīngāo to pitch a song in a higher key 给歌起调高一些 to be pitched at the right level «cry, voice» 音调定得恰到好处 
④ (dislodge) 使重重摔倒 shǐ zhòngzhòng shuāidǎo the rider was pitched off his horse 骑手从马背上摔了下来 
⑤ colloquial (throw away) 扔 rēng ‹rubbish›he pitched the cigarette end into the fire 他把烟蒂扔进了火堆 pitch it! AmE 扔掉它！ 
⑥ (erect) 搭 dā ‹tent›to pitch camp 扎营 
⑦ (in baseball) 投 tóu the ball was pitched low/at the batter's head 球投得很低/对准击球手的头部投出 
⑧ (in cricket) 使定点落地 shǐ dìngdiǎn luòdì ‹ball›
⑨ (in golf) 把…击成下旋高球 bǎ… jīchéng xiàxuán gāoqiú he pitched the ball close to the hole 他打出的下旋高球落在洞口附近 
⑩ Construction (cause to slope) 使倾斜 shǐ qīngxié the roof was pitched at an angle of 75 degrees 屋顶呈75度倾斜 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (be thrown) «passenger, cyclist» 猛然摔出 měngrán shuāichū the rider pitched over the fence/into the water/off his horse 骑手摔过了围栏/摔下来落入水中/从马上摔下来 
② Nautical, Aviation «boat, aircraft» 颠簸 diānbǒ to pitch from side to side 左摇右晃 
③ (in baseball) 投球 tóuqiú to be in there pitching AmE colloquial 兴致勃勃地参与 
④ (in golf) 击下旋高球 jī xiàxuán gāoqiú 
⑤ Busn 竞标 jìngbiāo to pitch for [something]; 投标竞争 ‹contract, business›PHRASAL VERBS pitch in 
A.  intransitive verbcolloquial 
① (join in to help) 热情参与 rèqíng cānyù to pitch in with [something]; 积极为某事提供帮助 
② (join in argument) 加入争斗 jiārù zhēngdòu 
③ (eat heartily) 开怀大吃 kāihuái dà chī 
B.  transitive verb 
① [pitch something in, pitch in something] (contribute) 出…相助 chū… xiāngzhù ‹sum of money›
② [pitch somebody in, pitch in somebody] (land in new situation) 使陷入困境 shǐ xiànrù kùnjìng the new manager was pitched in at a very difficult time 新任经理临危被卷了进来 pitch into transitive verb[pitch into somebody/something] colloquial 
① (attack physically) 击打 jīdǎ 
② (attack verbally) 抨击 pēngjī 
③ (engage in) 积极投入 jījí tóurù ‹job, activity, game›; 开始大吃 kāishǐ dà chī ‹meal›pitch over intransitive verb 摔倒 shuāidǎo he pitched over and fell flat on his face 他摔了个嘴啃泥 pitch up intransitive verb BrE colloquial 露面 lòumiàn 
pitch
1 
▶noun
1 her voice rose in pitch: tone, timbre, key, modulation, frequency.
2 the pitch of the roof: gradient, slope, slant, angle, steepness, tilt, incline, inclination.
3 her anger reached such a pitch that she screamed: level, intensity, point, degree, height, extent.
4 a pitch of the ball: throw, fling, hurl, toss, lob; delivery; informal heave.
5 his sales pitch: patter, talk; informal spiel, line, elevator pitch.
▶verb
1 she pitched the crumpled note into the fire: throw, toss, fling, hurl, cast, lob, flip, propel, bowl; informal chuck, sling, heave, peg.
2 he pitched overboard: fall, tumble, topple, plunge, plummet.
3 they pitched their tents: put up, set up, erect, raise.
4 the boat pitched: lurch, toss (about), plunge, roll, reel, sway, rock, keel, list, wallow, labor.
PHRASES
make a pitch for we made a pitch for the Loman account, but we lost in the bidding: try to obtain, try to acquire, try to get, bid for, make a bid for. pitch in if we all pitch in, we can be out of here in thirty minutes: help (out), assist, lend a hand, join in, participate, contribute, do one's bit, chip in, cooperate, collaborate.
