plain
1 
BrE pleɪn, AmE pleɪn 

A.  adjective 
① (simple) 简朴的 jiǎnpǔ de ‹dress, style, living, building›; 清淡的 qīngdàn de ‹cooking, food, diet›; 无糖衣的 wútángyī de ‹cake, biscuit›; 仅加盐的 jǐn jiā yán de ‹crisps›plain rice/water/yogurt 白饭/白开水/原味酸奶 
② (uniform) 单色的 dānsè de ‹fabric›; 素色的 sùsè de ‹garment›; 无格的 wúgé de ‹paper, envelope›; 单一的 dānyī de ‹colour›
③ (visible, clear, obvious) 清晰的 qīngxī de ‹line, marking, signal›; 明显的 míngxiǎn de ‹fact, situation›it is plain that …; 显然… to be plain to [somebody]; 对某人而言很明显 he kicked him in plain view of the referee 他当着裁判员的面踢了他 plain and simple 显而易见 to make it plain (to [somebody]) that … （向某人）明确表示… to make oneself plain 把自己的意思说明白 to be (as) plain as the nose on your face, to be as plain as day colloquial 一目了然 
④ attributive (clearly expressed, direct) 直截了当的 zhíjié-liǎodàng de ‹answer›; 简单明了的 jiǎndān míngliǎo de ‹language, talk›; 坦诚的 tǎnchéng de ‹person, speaking›to be plain about [something]; 在某事物上表现坦诚 to be plain with you, … 坦白对你说，… in plain words or English, you're fired! 说白了，你被解雇了！ I killed him, and that's the plain truth 我杀了他，这事明明白白的 
⑤ attributive (downright) 纯粹的 chúncuì de ‹ignorance, common sense, luck, idleness›
⑥ (ordinary, simple, average) 平凡的 píngfán de I'm not a Dr Brown, I'm plain Mr Brown 我不是什么布朗博士，我是普普通通的布朗先生 
⑦ (unattractive) 相貌平平的 xiàngmào píngpíng de ‹woman, girl›
⑧ (in knitting) 平针的 píngzhēn de ‹stitch, knitting›
B.  adverbcolloquial 
① (completely) 完全 wánquán ‹wrong›; 极其 jíqí ‹stupid, lucky, absurd›
② (directly, simply) 直率地 zhíshuài de ‹speak, tell›
C.  nounUncountable and countable(plural plain) (basic type of stitch) 平针 píngzhēn (knitted yarn) 平针针脚 píngzhēn zhēnjiao two plain, one purl 两针平，一针反 a pullover knitted in plain 平针套衫 
plain
1 
plān

▶adjective
1 not decorated or elaborate; simple or ordinary in character: good plain food 
everyone dined at a plain wooden table. 
• without a pattern; in only one color: a plain fabric. 
• bearing no indication as to source, contents, or affiliation: donations can be put in a plain envelope. 
• (of a person) having no pretensions; not remarkable or special: a plain, honest man with no nonsense about him. 
• [attributive] (of a person) without a special title or status: for years he was just plain Bill.
2 easy to perceive or understand; clear: the advantages were plain to see 
it was plain that something was very wrong. 
• [attributive] (of written or spoken usage) clearly expressed, without the use of technical or abstruse terms: written in plain English. 
• not using concealment or deception; frank: he recalled her plain speaking.
3 (of a person) not beautiful or attractive: the dark-haired, rather plain woman.
4 [attributive] sheer; simple (used for emphasis): the main problem is just plain exhaustion.
5 (of a knitting stitch) made using a knit rather than a purl stitch. 
▶adverb [as submodifier] informal clearly; unequivocally (used for emphasis): perhaps the youth was just plain stupid. 
▶noun a large area of flat land with few trees. Compare with prairie. 
• (the Plains) another term for Great Plains. 
PHRASES
as plain as the nose on one's face informal very obvious. in plain sight (or view) chiefly North American in a place that is clearly visible: very important clues are hidden in plain sight.plain and simple informal used to emphasize the statement preceding or following: she was a genius, plain and simple. plain as day informal very clearly.DERIVATIVES plainness 
ˈplānˌnis 
nounORIGIN Middle English: from Old French plain, from Latin planus, from a base meaning ‘flat.’
