please 
BrE pliːz, AmE pliz 

A.  exclamation 
① (accepting politely, or giving permission) 请 qǐng two coffees, please 请来两杯咖啡 would you like another cup of tea? — yes, please 要再来一杯茶吗？──好的，谢谢 may I smoke? — please feel free 我可以吸烟吗？──请自便 
② (with request, as question) 请问 qǐngwèn please could I leave early today? 请问我今天早点走行吗？ 
③ (requesting attention) 对不起 duìbuqǐ please, I don't understand 对不起，我不明白 
④ (in protest, entreaty) 请不要 qǐng bù yào children, please 孩子们，别闹了 I'll pay — please, you're my guest! 我来付钱──请别这样，你是我的客人嘛！ 
B.  transitive verb 
① (give happiness or satisfaction to) 使高兴 shǐ gāoxìng there's no pleasing some people 有些人难以取悦 to please the eye/ear 悦目/悦耳 
② dated (be the will of) 合…的心意 hé… de xīnyì ‹person›may it please Your Majesty 希望陛下满意 please God he comes! 但愿他能来！ if you please (in orders, requests) 烦请 (showing indignation) 岂有此理 then, if you please, he expects me to pay! 接下来，你听听，他居然指望我付钱！ 
C.  reflexive verb to please oneself; 随心所欲 suí xīn suǒ yù you must please yourself whether you come or not 来不来随便你 lái bù lái suíbiàn nǐ please yourself! 请自便！ qǐng zìbiàn ！ 
D.  intransitive verb 
① (give happiness or satisfaction) 使人满意 shǐ rén mǎnyì she's eager or anxious to please 她急于取悦别人 
② (like, think fit) 愿意 yuànyì I'm going now — as you please 我要走了──你想走就走吧 she walked forward as calm as you please 她非常镇定地走上前去 take as much as you please 你想拿多少就拿多少 
E.  noun 请 qǐng without so much as a please or thank you 连个“请”或“谢谢”都没说 
please 
plēz

▶verb [with object]
1 cause to feel happy and satisfied: he arranged a fishing trip to please his son 
[with object and infinitive] : it pleased him to be seen with someone in the news. 
• [no object] give satisfaction: she was quiet and eager to please. 
• satisfy aesthetically.
2 (please oneself) take only one's own wishes into consideration in deciding how to act or proceed: this is the first time in ages that I can just please myself. 
• [no object] wish or desire to do something: feel free to wander around as you please. 
• (it pleases, pleased, etc., someone to do something) dated it is someone's choice to do something: instead of attending the meeting, it pleased him to go off hunting. 
▶adverb used in polite requests or questions: please address letters to the Editor 
what type of fish is this, please? 
• used to add urgency and emotion to a request: please, please come home! 
• used to agree politely to a request: “May I call you at home?” “Please do.” 
• used in polite or emphatic acceptance of an offer: “Would you like a drink?” “Yes, please.” 
• used to ask someone to stop doing something of which the speaker disapproves: Rita, please—people are looking. 
• used to express incredulity or irritation: You cleaned out the barn in only two hours? Oh, please! 
PHRASES
as —— as you please informal used to emphasize the manner in which someone does something, especially when this is seen as surprising: she walked forward as calm as you please. if you please
1 used in polite requests: follow me, if you please.
2 used to express indignation at something perceived as unreasonable: she wants me to make fifty cakes in time for the festival, if you please!DERIVATIVES pleaser nounORIGIN Middle English: from Old French plaisir ‘to please,’ from Latin placere .
