plot 
BrE plɒt, AmE plɑt 

A.  noun 
① (piece of ground) 小块土地 xiǎokuài tǔdì a plot of land 一块地 a vegetable plot 一块菜地 a cemetery plot 一块墓地 
② (conspiracy) 密谋 mìmóu an assassination plot 暗杀阴谋 
③ (narrative of novel, film, play) 情节 qíngjié I couldn't follow the plot 我搞不明白故事情节 the plot thickens 情况变得复杂起来 
B.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -tt-) 
① (secretly plan) 密谋 mìmóu to plot to do [something]; 暗中策划做某事 
② (make plan of) 设计…的方案 shèjì… de fāng'àn ; (map) 绘制…的平面图 huìzhì… de píngmiàntú they have plotted a way forward for company expansion 他们为公司设计好了一条扩张之路 
③ (chart) 在图上标绘出 zài tú shang biāo huì chū ‹course, position, progress›
④ (on graph) 绘制 huìzhì ‹curve›; 标定 biāodìng ‹point, figure›
C.  intransitive verb (present participle etc. -tt-) 密谋 mìmóu to plot against the government 密谋反政府 
plot 
plät

▶noun
1 a plan made in secret by a group of people to do something illegal or harmful: [with infinitive] : there's a plot to overthrow the government.
2 the main events of a play, novel, movie, or similar work, devised and presented by the writer as an interrelated sequence.
3 a small piece of ground marked out for a purpose such as building or gardening: a vegetable plot.
4 a graph showing the relation between two variables. 
• chiefly US a diagram, chart, or map. 
▶verb (plots, plotting, plotted) [with object]
1 secretly make plans to carry out (an illegal or harmful action): the two men are serving sentences for plotting a bomb campaign 
[no object] : Erica has been plotting against me all along.
2 devise the sequence of events in (a play, novel, movie, or similar work).
3 mark (a route or position) on a chart: he started to plot lines of ancient sites. 
• mark out or allocate (points) on a graph. 
• make (a curve) by marking out a number of points on a graph. 
• illustrate by use of a graph: it is possible to plot fairly closely the rate at which recruitment of girls increased. 
PHRASES
lose the plot informal lose one's ability to understand or cope with what is happening: many people believe that he is feeling the strain or has lost the plot. the plot thickens see thicken. DERIVATIVES plotless 
ˈplätləs 
adjectiveORIGIN late Old English ( sense
3 of the noun), of unknown origin. The sense ‘secret plan,’ dating from the late 16th century, is associated with Old French complot ‘dense crowd, secret project,’ the same term being used occasionally in English from the mid 16th century Compare with plat1 .
