plough 
BrE plaʊ, AmE plaʊ
BrE 
A.  noun 
① Agriculture 犁 lí a horse and plough 一套马和犁 under the plough 用于耕作的 to put or set one's hand to the plough literal 开始耕作 figurative 着手 zhuóshǒu 
② especially AmE = snowplough 
A. 
① 
③ BrE Astronomy the Plough 北斗七星 běidǒu qī xīng 
B.  transitive verb 
① Agriculture (break up with plough) 犁 lí ‹field, land›(create with plough) 犁出 líchū ‹furrow›a ploughed field 犁过的田地 to plough a lonely furrow figurative 自耕孤畴 to plough one's way through [something] figurative 奋力穿过某物 to plough one's way through a pile of legal documents 埋头苦读大量法律文件 
② especially AmE (clear with snowplough) 用扫雪机清扫 yòng sǎoxuějī qīngsǎo 
③ (invest) to plough money into [something] 将大笔资金投资于某事物 
④ BrE University colloquial dated «examinee» 未通过 wèi tōngguò ‹examination›; «examiner» 使…不及格 shǐ… bù jígé ‹examinee›
C.  intransitive verb «farmer, horse, ox» 犁地 lí de ; «tractor» 耕地 gēngdì PHRASAL VERBS plough back transitive verb[plough something back, plough back something] 把…再投资 bǎ… zài tóuzī ‹profit, surplus, income›to plough [something] back into [something] 把某物再投资于某事 plough in transitive verb [plough something in, plough in something] 犁埋 lí mái ‹crop, grass›plough into transitive verb[plough into something] «driver, vehicle» 猛撞 měng zhuàng ‹vehicle, person, tree›plough on intransitive verb «person, group» 坚持下去 jiānchí xiaqu ; «vehicle» 继续前进 jìxù qiánjìn plough through transitive verb[plough through something] 费力地穿越 fèilì de chuānyuè ‹wave, obstacle, snow, mud›; 苦读 kǔ dú ‹book›; 费力做 fèilì zuò ‹exercise›plough up transitive verb[plough something up, plough up something] 
① Agriculture 犁耕 lí gēng ‹land, field›
② (destroy surface of) «vehicle» 碾坏 niǎnhuài ‹field, track›
plow 
plou 
(British plough) 
▶noun
1 a large farming implement with one or more blades fixed in a frame, drawn by a tractor or by animals and used for cutting furrows in the soil and turning it over, especially to prepare for the planting of seeds. 
• chiefly North American a snowplow.
2 (also plow pose) a yoga pose assumed by lying on one's back and swinging one's legs over one's head until the outstretched feet approach or touch the floor: positions like plow and headstand can strain the neck. 
▶verb [with object]
1 turn up the earth of (an area of land) with a plow, especially before sowing: Uncle Vic plowed his garden 
(as adjective plowed) : a plowed field. 
• cut (a furrow or line) with or as if with a plow: icebergs have plowed furrows on the seabed. 
• (of a ship or boat) travel through (an area of water): cruise liners plow the long-sailed routes.
2 [no object] (especially of a vehicle) move in a fast and uncontrolled manner: the car plowed into the side of a van. 
• advance or progress laboriously or forcibly: they plowed their way through deep snow 
the students are plowing through a set of grammar exercises. 
• (plow on) continue steadily despite difficulties or warnings to stop: he plowed on, trying to outline his plans.
3 chiefly North American clear snow from (a road) using a snowplow: the roads weren't yet plowed.
4 British informal, dated fail (an examination). 
PHRASES
plow a lonely (or one's own) furrow follow a course of action in which one is isolated or in which one can act independently. put (or set) one's hand to the plow embark on a task. [with biblical allusion to Luke 9:62.]PHRASAL VERBS plow something in/back plow grass or other material into the soil to enrich it. 
• invest money in a business or reinvest profits in the enterprise producing them: savings made through greater efficiency will be plowed back into the service. plow under bury in the soil by plowing. plow up till (soil) completely or thoroughly. 
• uncover by plowing.DERIVATIVES plowable adjective. plower 
ˈplou(ə)r 
nounORIGIN late Old English plōh, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch ploeg and German Pflug. The spelling plough became common in England in the 18th century; earlier (16th–17th centuries) the noun was normally spelled plough, the verb plow.
