poison 
BrE ˈpɔɪz(ə)n, AmE ˈpɔɪz(ə)n 

A.  nounUncountable and countable
① (noxious substance) 毒物 dúwù to take poison 服毒 a lethal/slow poison 致命的/慢性毒药 
② figurative (corrupting influence) 有害物 yǒuhàiwù this racist propaganda is pure poison 这一种族主义宣传纯属精神毒药 
B.  transitive verb 
① (kill) 毒死 dúsǐ (make ill) 使中毒 shǐ zhòngdú he poisoned his wife with cyanide 他用氰化物毒死了妻子 to have a poisoned finger/toe 手指/脚趾受感染发炎 
② (add poison to) 在…上涂毒 zài… shang tú dú ‹dart, shirt›; 给…下毒 gěi… xiàdú ‹food›
③ Ecology (contaminate) 污染 wūrǎn ‹river, air, environment›
④ figurative (spoil) 毒化 dúhuà ‹life, outlook›this quarrel poisoned their relationship 这次吵架使他们的关系恶化了 
⑤ figurative (injure morally) «person, propaganda» 毒害 dúhài ‹mind›
poison 
ˈpoiz(ə)n

▶noun a substance that is capable of causing the illness or death of a living organism when introduced or absorbed. 
• Chemistry a substance that reduces the activity of a catalyst. 
• Physics an additive or impurity in a nuclear reactor that slows a reaction by absorbing neutrons. 
• a person, idea, action, or situation that is considered to have a destructive or corrupting effect or influence: meanwhile he is spreading his poison over the Internet. 
▶verb [with object] administer poison to (a person or animal), either deliberately or accidentally: he tried to poison his wife 
swans are being poisoned by lead from anglers' lines 
(as noun poisoning) : symptoms of poisoning may include nausea, diarrhea, and vomiting. 
• adulterate or contaminate (food or drink) with poison. 
• (usually as adjective poisoned) treat (a weapon or missile) with poison in order to augment its lethal effect. 
• prove harmful or destructive to: his disgust had poisoned his attitude toward everyone. 
• Chemistry (of a substance) reduce the activity of (a catalyst). 
PHRASES
what's your poison? informal used to ask someone what they would like to drink.DERIVATIVES poisoner 
ˈpoiz(ə)nər 
nounORIGIN Middle English (denoting a harmful medicinal drink): from Old French poison ‘magic potion,’ from Latin potio(n-) ‘potion,’ related to potare ‘to drink.’
