poke
1 
BrE pəʊk, AmE poʊk 

A.  transitive verb 
① (with hand) 戳 chuō ‹person, substance, ground, heap›(with poker) 拨 bō ‹fire, embers›to poke [somebody]/[something] with [something]; 用某物捅某人/某物 to poke [somebody] in the eye with a stick 用棍子戳某人的眼睛 
② colloquial (punch) 拳打 quándǎ ‹person›to poke [somebody] one 打某人一拳 
③ (create by prodding) 捅出 tǒngchū ‹gap, opening›poke a hole in the sack/fence 把袋子/篱笆捅出一个洞 it's easy to poke holes in their argument figurative 很容易找出他们论点中的漏洞 
④ (push, put) 插入 chārù ‹stick›; 塞入 sāirù ‹umbrella, piece of paper›he poked a rag into the hole 他把一块破布塞进了洞里 poke a fork into the meat 把叉子插进肉里 to poke one's finger up one's nose 用手指捅鼻子 to poke one's head out of the window 把头伸出窗户 
⑤ slang pejorative (penetrate sexually) «man» 跟…性交 gēn… xìngjiāo ‹woman›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (be visible) «part of body» 伸出 shēnchū ; «object, flower» 露出 lùchū his elbows poked through the holes in his sweater 他的胳膊肘从毛衣的破洞中露了出来 
② (prod, jab) «person» 戳弄 chuōnòng to poke into [something] 戳弄某物 he's no right to come round here poking into my business figurative 他无权来这里干涉我的事情 
C.  noun 
① Countable(prod) 戳 chuō to give the fire a poke 拨一下火 
② Countablecolloquial (punch) 一拳 yī quán to take a poke at [somebody] 打某人一拳 to give [somebody] a poke in the ribs 打某人肋部一拳 to get a poke in the eye figurative 遭受巨大不幸 
③ Countableslang pejorative (sexual penetration) 性交 xìngjiāo to have a poke 与人性交 PHRASAL VERBS poke about, poke around intransitive verb colloquial 翻找 fānzhǎo to poke about or around for [something]; 翻找某物 we've had journalists poking around asking a lot of questions 我们被记者追问了许多问题 poke at transitive verb[poke at somebody/something] 戳 chuō ‹person›; 捅 tǒng ‹ground, heap›; 拨弄 bōnong ‹fire›she kept poking at me with her finger 她不停地对我指指画画 poke out 
A.  intransitive verb «part of body» 伸出 shēnchū ; «object, flower» 露出 lùchū ; «stomach, breasts, bottom» 凸出 tūchū to poke out of [something]; 从某处露出 a few shoots were poking out of the soil 几根嫩芽破土而出 to poke out through [something]; 穿透某物露出 the first snowdrops were poking out through the snow 第一批雪花莲从雪中探出头来 to poke out from under [something]; 从某物下面露出 
B.  transitive verb[poke something out, poke out something] 
① (make visible) 伸出 shēnchū ‹head, tongue›I haven't so much as poked my nose out all day figurative 我一整天连门都没出过 
② (remove) 捅出 tǒngchū ‹object›he nearly poked my eye out 他差点把我的眼珠捅出来 poke up intransitive verb «flower, shoot, spring» 露出 lùchū to poke up through; 钻出 ‹surface, ground, grass›snowdrops were poking up through the snow 雪花莲破雪而出了 
poke
1 
pōk

▶verb
1 [with object] jab or prod (someone or something), especially with one's finger: he poked Benny in the ribs and pointed 
[no object] : they sniffed, felt, and poked at everything they bought. 
• (on the social networking site Facebook) attract the attention of (another member of the site) by using the ‘poke’ facility. 
• prod and stir (a fire) with a poker to make it burn more fiercely. 
• make (a hole) in something by prodding or jabbing at it. 
• thrust (something) in a particular direction: I poked my head around the door to see what was going on 
she poked her tongue out. 
• [no object] protrude and be or become visible: she had wisps of gray hair poking out from under her bonnet. 
• vulgar slang (of a man) have sexual intercourse with (another person).
2 [no object] US informal move slowly; dawdle: I was poking along, my vision blocked by that curtain of sleet. 
▶noun
1 an act of poking someone or something: she gave the fire a poke. 
• (a poke around) informal a look or search around a place. 
• vulgar slang an act of sexual intercourse.
2 (also poke bonnet) a woman's bonnet with a projecting brim or front, popular especially in the early 19th century.
3 informal, chiefly British power or acceleration in a car: I expect you'd prefer something with a bit more poke. 
PHRASES
better than a poke in the eye (with a sharp stick) humorous welcome or pleasing, even if other circumstances might be better: I got a tax rebate—not a huge amount but better than a poke in the eye with a sharp stick. poke fun at tease or make fun of. poke one's nose into informal take an intrusive interest in. take a poke at someone informal hit or punch someone. 
• criticize someone.PHRASAL VERBS poke around/about look around a place, typically in search of something.ORIGIN Middle English: origin uncertain; compare with Middle Dutch and Middle Low German poken, of unknown ultimate origin. The noun dates from the late 18th century.
