poll 
BrE pəʊl, AmE poʊl 

A.  noun 
① (vote casting) 投票 tóupiào (vote counting) 记票 jìpiào he was successful at the poll 他当选了 on the eve of the poll 在投票日前夜 
② (number of votes cast) 投票数 tóupiàoshù to head or top the poll 得票数领先 a light/heavy poll 低/高投票率 she got 25% of the poll 她赢得了25％的选票 
③ (list of voters) 选民名册 xuǎnmín míngcè ; (list of taxpayers) 纳税人名册 nàshuìrén míngcè 
④ (survey) 民意调查 mínyì diàochá to conduct or carry out a poll 进行民意调查 to take a poll on [something] 就某事进行民意调查 (public) opinion poll 民意测验 
B.  polls noun plural Politics (vote, election) 投票地点 tóupiào dìdiǎn the country goes to the polls tomorrow 全国明天举行选举投票 to win at the polls 当选 
C.  transitive verb 
① (obtain in election) 获得 huòdé ‹votes›
② (canvass) 调查 diàochá ‹members of the public, group›to poll housewives for their opinions 征求家庭主妇的意见 
③ Agriculture 截掉…的角尖 jiédiào… de jiǎojiān ‹cattle, sheep›
④ Computing 查询 cháxún 
D.  intransitive verb «party, candidate» 获得选票 huòdé xuǎnpiào to poll heavily/badly 赢得大量/很少选票 
poll 
pōl

▶noun
1 (often the polls) the process of voting in an election: the country went to the polls on March 10. 
• a record of the number of votes cast in an election. 
• (the polls) the places where votes are cast in an election: the polls have only just closed. 
• short for opinion poll.
2 dialect a person's head. 
• the part of the head on which hair grows; the scalp. 
▶verb [with object]
1 record the opinion or vote of: focus groups in which customers are polled about merchandise preferences. 
• [no object] (of a candidate in an election) receive a specified number of votes: the Green candidate polled 3.6 percent. 
• Telecommunications & Computing check the status of (a measuring device, part of a computer, or a node in a network), especially as part of a repeated cycle.
2 cut the horns off (an animal, especially a young cow). 
• archaic cut off the top of (a tree or plant), typically to encourage further growth; pollard. DERIVATIVES pollee 
pōˈlē 
noun poll ( sense
1 of the verb) ORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘head’): perhaps of Low German origin. The original sense was ‘head,’ and hence ‘an individual person among a number,’ from which developed the sense ‘number of people ascertained by counting of heads’ and then ‘counting of heads or of votes’ (17th century).
