pop
1 
BrE pɒp, AmE pɑp 

A.  noun 
① Countable(sound) 砰 pēng with a pop 砰的一声 to go pop 发出砰的一声 
② Uncountable AmE colloquial dated (drink) 汽水 qìshuǐ 
③ Countablecolloquial (physical attack) 击打 jīdǎ (verbal attack) 抨击 pēngjī to take or have a pop at [somebody]/[something] 攻击某人/某事物 the book has a pop at astrology and astrologists 这本书抨击了占星术和占星家 
B.  transitive verb 
① (burst) 使…爆裂 shǐ… bàoliè ‹balloon›; AmE (open) 啪的一声拉开 pā de yī shēng lākāi ‹cork, button, opener›(close) 啪的一声合上 pā de yī shēng héshang ‹fastener, stud›to pop one's clogs BrE colloquial (die) 蹬腿儿 
② Culinary 加热爆开 jiārè bàokāi ‹grain›to pop corn 做爆米花 
③ especially BrE (put) 突然探出 tūrán tànchū ‹head›; [冷不防地] 放下 fàngxia ‹small object, bag, letter›to pop [something] in(to) [something]; 突然把某物丢进某处 he popped the meat into the oven 他迅速把肉扔进炉子里 to pop pills colloquial 大量服药 to pop the question colloquial 开口求婚 
④ BrE colloquial (pawn) 典当 diǎndàng ‹valuables, watch, jewellery›
C.  intransitive verb 
① (go bang) «balloon» 爆裂 bàoliè ; «cork» 啪的一声打开 pā de yī shēng dǎkāi my ears were popping (at speed or altitude) 我耳朵里嗡嗡作响 
② (bulge) 凸出 tūchū to make [somebody's] eyes pop BrE colloquial 使某人惊讶得眼睛都要鼓出来了 
③ especially BrE (go, nip) 急忙赶路 jímáng gǎnlù I was just popping into town 我正赶着去城里 she popped round or over to see us 她赶来看我们 
④ especially BrE (appear) 突然出现 tūrán chūxiàn a head popped round the door/over the wall 一个脑袋从门后/墙头冷不防探了出来 PHRASAL VERBS pop back especially BrE 
A.  intransitive verb 赶回去 gǎn huíqù 
B.  transitive verb[pop something back, pop back something] 迅速放回 xùnsù fànghuí ‹cover, small object›to pop the lid back on 迅速把盖子盖上 pop in especially BrE 
A.  intransitive verb 短暂拜访 duǎnzàn bàifǎng to pop in for a chat/to say hello 进来聊一会儿/问声好 
B.  transitive verb[pop something in] 迅速放进 xùnsù fàngjìn I'll pop my library books in on the way to town 我进城时会顺便把从图书馆借的书还回去的 pop off intransitive verb 
① especially BrE (leave) 离开 líkāi to pop off to town 去城里 
② especially BrE colloquial (die) 一命呜呼 yī mìng wūhū pop on transitive verb[pop something on, pop on something] BrE 迅速穿上 xùnsù chuānshang ‹coat, sweater›; 迅速戴上 xùnsù dàishang ‹ring›pop out intransitive verb 
① (come out) 突然跳出 tūrán tiàochū to make [somebody's] eyes pop out colloquial 令某人惊得眼睛都要鼓出来了 to pop out of [something]; 突然从某处出现 the cork popped out of the bottle 瓶塞突然从瓶口跳了出来 
② BrE (go out) 匆忙出去一会儿 cōngmáng chūqù yīhuìr to pop out to the shop 匆忙离开去一下商店 pop up intransitive verb 
① (rise) «face, head» 突然抬起 tūrán táiqǐ ; «rabbit, fish» 突然跳起 tūrán tiàoqǐ 
② (appear) «person» 突然露面 tūrán lòumiàn ; Computing «menu» 弹出 tánchū 
③ (occur) «name» 偶然提起 ǒurán tíqǐ ; «memory» 偶然出现 ǒurán chūxiàn 
pop
1 
päp

▶verb (pops, popping, popped)
1 [no object] make a light explosive sound: corks popped, glasses tinkled, and delicate canapés were served. 
• [with object] cause (something) to burst, making a pop: they were popping balloons with darts. 
• (of a person's ears) make a small popping sound within the head as pressure is equalized, typically because of a change of altitude. 
• [with object] heat (popcorn or another foodstuff) until it bursts open. 
• (of a person's eyes) bulge or appear to bulge when opened wide, especially as an indication of surprise.
2 [no object] go somewhere, typically for a short time and often without notice: she popped in to see if she could help. 
• [with object] put or move (something) somewhere quickly: he popped his head around the door.
3 [no object] Baseball (of a batter) hit a pop fly. 
• [with object] (of a pitcher) cause (a batter) to pop up.
4 [no object] appear brighter or more striking in juxtaposition with something of a different or complementary color: she added a slick of red lipstick to make the outfit pop 
gray creates a calm, neutral backdrop that lets other colors pop.
5 [with object] informal take or inject (a drug): people who obsessively drink and pop pills.
6 [with object] British informal pawn (something). 
▶noun
1 a light explosive sound: at first there were just a few pops, perhaps from pistols.
2 a patch of bright color: I like wearing a neutral outfit with one pop of yellow.
3 informal a carbonated soft drink.
4 (also pop fly or pop-up) Baseball a ball hit high in the air but not deep, providing an easy catch.
5 an attempt: he grabs with a paw and hooks about two hundred berries at a pop. 
▶adverb with a light explosive sound: the champagne went pop. 
PHRASES
—— a pop North American informal costing a specified amount per item: those swimsuits she wears are $50 a pop. have (or take) a pop at informal, chiefly British attack physically or verbally. make someone's eyes pop (out) informal cause great astonishment to someone.pop the question informal propose marriage.PHRASAL VERBS pop for informal pay for (something), especially as a treat for someone else: I popped for the first three tolls. pop off informal
1 die.
2 speak spontaneously and at length, typically angrily: I've been thinking about it a lot—I don't want you to imagine I'm just popping off. pop out make an out in a baseball game by hitting a pop fly that is caught. pop up
1 appear or occur suddenly and unexpectedly: these memories can pop up from time to time. 
• Computing (of a browser window) appear without having been requested, especially for the purpose of advertising.
2 hit a baseball high into the air but not deep, providing an easy catch: in three at bats, he struck out twice and popped up.ORIGIN late Middle English (in the senses ‘a blow, knock’ and ‘to strike’): imitative.
