pose 
BrE pəʊz, AmE poʊz 

A.  intransitive verb 
① (for photograph, painting) 摆姿势 bǎi zīshì to pose for one's portrait 为画像摆好姿势 to pose for [somebody]; (for photograph) 摆好姿势让某人照相 (for painting) 摆好姿势让某人画像 
② (masquerade) 假装 jiǎzhuāng to pose as [somebody]; 冒充某人 
③ pejorative (posture) 装腔作势 zhuāng qiāng zuò shì 
B.  transitive verb 
① (present) 构成 gòuchéng ‹problem, challenge, threat›
② (ask, put forward) 提出 tíchū ‹question, concept›
③ Art 使摆好姿势 shǐ bǎihǎo zīshì 
C.  noun 
① (position, manner) 姿势 zīshì to adopt a pose 摆出一种姿势 
② pejorative (affected or deceiving behaviour) 故作姿态 gù zuò zītài it's all a pose colloquial 这完全是装腔作势 to strike a pose 装模作样 
pose
1 
pōz

▶verb
1 [with object] present or constitute (a problem, danger, or difficulty): the sheer number of visitors is posing a threat to the area. 
• raise (a question or matter for consideration): a statement that posed more questions than it answered.
2 [no object] assume a particular attitude or position in order to be photographed, painted, or drawn: she posed for a swarm of TV cameramen. 
• [with object] place (someone) in a particular attitude or position in order to be photographed, painted, or drawn: he posed her on the sofa. 
• (pose as) set oneself up as or pretend to be (someone or something): a detective posing as a customer 
figurative : a literary novel posing as a spy thriller.
3 behave affectedly in order to impress others: some people like to drive these cars, but most just like to pose in them. 
▶noun
1 a particular way of standing or sitting, usually adopted for effect or in order to be photographed, painted, or drawn: photographs of boxers in ferocious poses.
2 a particular way of behaving adopted in order to give others a false impression or to impress others: the man dropped his pose of amiability. DERIVATIVES posable adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: from Old French poser (verb), from late Latin pausare ‘to pause,’ which replaced Latin ponere ‘to show off.’ The noun dates from the early 19th century.
