positive 
BrE ˈpɒzɪtɪv, AmE ˈpɑzədɪv 

A.  adjective 
① predicative (certain, sure) 确定的 quèdìng de to be positive 有把握 positive! 绝对肯定！ 
② (hopeful) 乐观的 lèguān de ; (confident) 有信心的 yǒu xìnxīn de to be positive about [something] 对…有信心 ‹idea, plan›
③ (good, useful, constructive) 积极向上的 jījí xiàngshàng de ‹feeling, achievement, contribution›positive thinking 积极的思考 to think positive 往积极的方面去想 
④ (encouraging) 表示赞同的 biǎoshì zàntóng de ‹response, statement, sign›she made some really positive criticisms 她提出了一些非常有建设性的批评意见 
⑤ (clear) 明确的 míngquè de ‹instructions, orders, rules›
⑥ (conclusive) 令人信服的 lìng rén xìnfú de ‹identification, proof, evidence›
⑦ (indicating the presence of sth.) 呈阳性的 chéng yángxìng de ‹test, result, reaction›
⑧ attributive (absolute, extreme) 十足的 shízú de ‹disgrace, miracle, fool›she's a positive genius colloquial 她是个真正的天才 the fellow's a positive menace colloquial 那家伙绝对是个威胁 
⑨ (beneficial) 有助益的 yǒu zhùyì de ‹good, advantage›
⑩ Mathematics 正的 zhèng de ‹number, sign›
⑪ Electricity 正电的 zhèngdiàn de a positive terminal 正极 zhèngjí 
⑫ Photography 正片的 zhèngpiàn de a positive image 正片图像 
⑬ Linguistics 原级的 yuánjí de 
B.  noun 
① (good quality or attribute) 优点 yōudiǎn 
② (affirmative) 肯定 kěndìng the answer was in the positive 答案是肯定的 
③ Photography 正片 zhèngpiàn 
④ Linguistics 原级 yuánjí 
⑤ Electricity 正极 zhèngjí 
positive 
ˈpäzədiv

▶adjective
1 consisting in or characterized by the presence or possession of features or qualities rather than their absence. 
• (of a statement or decision) expressing or implying affirmation, agreement, or permission: the company received a positive response from investors. 
• (of the results of a test or experiment) indicating that a certain substance or condition is present or exists: the positive results of a pregnancy test 
a positive test for Down's syndrome. 
• (of a person) having a specified condition, or showing traces of a specified substance in their body: a player had tested positive for cocaine use 
[in combination] : he is HIV-positive. 
• constructive in intention or attitude: there needs to be a positive approach to youthful offenders. 
• showing optimism and confidence: I hope you will be feeling very positive about your chances of success. 
• showing pleasing progress, gain, or improvement: the election result will have a positive effect because it will restore people's confidence.
2 with no possibility of doubt; clear and definite: he made a positive identification of a glossy ibis. 
• convinced or confident in one's opinion; certain: “You are sure it was the same man?” “Positive!” 
[with clause] : I am positive that he is not coming back. 
• [attributive] informal downright; complete (used for emphasis): it's a positive delight to see you.
3 of, containing, producing, or denoting an electric charge opposite to that carried by electrons.
4 (of a photographic image) showing lights and shades or colors true to the original.
5 Grammar (of an adjective or adverb) expressing a quality in its basic, primary degree. Contrasted with comparative and superlative.
6 chiefly Philosophy dealing only with matters of fact and experience; not speculative or theoretical. Compare with positivism ( sense 1).
7 (of a quantity) greater than zero.
8 Astrology relating to or denoting any of the air or fire signs, considered active in nature. 
▶noun
1 a good, affirmative, or constructive quality or attribute: take your weaknesses and translate them into positives 
to manage your way out of recession, accentuate the positive.
2 a photographic image showing lights and shades or colors true to the original, especially one printed from a negative.
3 a result of a test or experiment indicating the presence of something: let us look at the distribution of those positives.
4 the part of an electric circuit that is at a higher electrical potential than another point designated as having zero electrical potential.
5 Grammar an adjective or adverb in the positive degree.
6 Music another term for positif.
7 a number greater than zero. DERIVATIVES positiveness 
ˈpäzədivnəs 
nounORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French positif, -ive or Latin positivus, from posit- ‘placed,’ from the verb ponere. The original sense referred to laws as being formally ‘laid down,’ which gave rise to the sense ‘explicitly laid down and admitting no question,’ hence ‘very sure, convinced.’
