position 
BrE pəˈzɪʃ(ə)n, AmE pəˈzɪʃ(ə)n 

A.  noun 
① Countable(location) 位置 wèizhi to take up a position 占据位置 to take up one's position 就位 what position do you play (in)? Sport 你打什么位置？ to be in a good/sunny position 处于有利位置/在阳光充足的地方 positions, everybody, curtain's going up Theatre 请大家就座，演出就要开始了 
② Uncountable(correct location) 恰当位置 qiàdàng wèizhi to be in position 就位 to be out of position 不在原定位置 to get ([something]) into position （使某物）进入适当位置 to jostle or manoeuvre for position 争抢有利位置 
③ Uncountable and countable(posture, attitude of body) 姿势 zīshì a sitting/kneeling/lying position 坐姿/跪姿/卧姿 
④ Uncountable and countable(of switch, lever) 挡位 dǎngwèi the controls have three positions 这套操纵装置有三个挡 a switch in the on/off position 开着/关着的开关 
⑤ Countable(ranking) 名次 míngcì top/bottom position 榜首/垫底的排名 to move up/down to a new position 上升/下降到新的排名 
⑥ Uncountable and countable(social status) 地位 dìwèi position in society 社会地位 a man of position 有身份的男子 
⑦ Countable(job) 职位 zhíwèi a management/government position 管理岗位/政府职位 to resign one's position 辞职 to take a senior position 担任高级职务 a position of power/authority 有权力/有权威的职务 
⑧ Countable(state) 状况 zhuàngkuàng the economic/financial position 经济/财务状况 to be/find oneself in a good/bad position 处于/发现自己处于良好/糟糕的境况 to be in a/no position to do [something] 能够/不能做某事 you're in a good position to judge 你完全可以作出判断 if I were in your position, I'd … 如果我碰到你的情况，我就… to get oneself/[somebody] into a difficult position 使自己/某人陷入困境 put yourself in his position 设身处地为他想想 
⑨ Countable(stance, attitude) 立场 lìchǎng to declare/reconsider/shift/change one's position 宣布/重新考虑/转变/改变立场 to take up a position 持某种态度 I have made my position very clear 我已经明确给出了自己的立场 to have a position on [something]; 对某事物持有某态度 
⑩ CountableMilitary 阵地 zhèndì defensive/forward/enemy positions 防御/前方/敌方阵地 
⑪ Countable(counter) 柜台 guìtái 'position closed' 本柜台停止营业 
B.  transitive verb 
① (place, station) 摆放 bǎifàng ‹object, ornament›; 部署 bùshǔ ‹army, troops›to be positioned; «building, object» 被安置 «artillery, soldiers» 被部署 bèi bùshǔ the house is badly positioned 这幢房子位置很差 
② Busn 为…打开市场 wèi… dǎkāi shìchǎng ‹product, service, business›
③ (get at correct angle) 调准…的角度 tiáozhǔn… de jiǎodù ‹telescope, aerial, lamp›
④ (ascertain position of) 确定…的位置 quèdìng… de wèizhi ‹ship, aircraft›
C.  reflexive verb 使位于 shǐ wèiyú to position oneself next to or by [something]; 站在某物旁 I positioned myself next to a pillar and waited 我站在一根柱子旁边等候 
position 
pəˈziSH(ə)n

▶noun
1 a place where someone or something is located or has been put: the distress call had given the ship's position 
Mrs. Snell had taken up her position on the bottom step of the stairs. 
• the location where someone or something should be; the correct place: the lid was put into position and screwed down 
make sure that no slates have slipped out of position. 
• (often positions) a place where part of a military force is posted for strategic purposes: the guns were shelling the German positions.
2 a particular way in which someone or something is placed or arranged: he moved himself into a reclining position 
a cramp forced her to change position. 
• in a game of chess, the configuration of the pieces and pawns on the board at any point. 
• Music a particular location of the hand on the fingerboard of a stringed instrument: be familiar with the first six positions across the four strings. 
• Music a particular location of the slide of a trombone. 
• Music the arrangement of the constituent notes of a chord.
3 a situation or set of circumstances, especially one that affects one's power to act: the company's financial position is grim 
[with infinitive] : we felt we were not in a position to judge the merits of the case. 
• a job: she retired from her position as marketing director. 
• the state of being placed where one has an advantage over one's rivals in a competitive situation: his successors were already jockeying for position. 
• a person's place or rank in relation to others, especially in a competitive situation: he made up ground to finish in second position. 
• high rank or social standing: a woman of supposed wealth and position. 
• (in team games) a set of functions considered as the responsibility of a particular player based on the location in which they play: it gives every player a chance to play every fielding position.
4 a person's particular point of view or attitude toward something: I’ll never accept his position on censorship.
5 an investor's net holdings in one or more markets at a particular time; the status of an individual or institutional trader's open contracts: traders were covering short positions.
6 Logic a proposition laid down or asserted; a tenet or assertion. 
▶verb [with object] put or arrange (someone or something) in a particular place or way: he pulled out a chair and positioned it between them 
she positioned herself on a bench. 
• promote (a product, service, or business) within a particular sector of a market, or as the fulfillment of that sector's specific requirements: a comprehensive development plan that will position the city as a major economic force in the region. 
• portray or regard (someone) as a particular type of person: I had positioned her as my antagonist. ORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French, from Latin positio(n-), from ponere ‘to place.’ The current sense of the verb dates from the early 19th century.
