possession 
BrE pəˈzɛʃ(ə)n, AmE pəˈzɛʃən 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(state of having) 拥有 yōngyǒu the possession of a driving licence is a requirement 规定必须持有驾照 to be in possession of [something] 拥有某物 to come into [somebody's] possession 为某人所获得 to have [something] in one's possession 拥有某物 to have possession of [something] 拥有某物 to get possession of [something] (legally) 得到某物 (by force) 夺得某物 
② UncountableLaw (illegal ownership) 私藏 sīcáng to be in possession of 私藏 sīcáng ‹drugs›
③ UncountableLaw (ownership of house, land) 占有 zhànyǒu to come into possession of [something] 占有某物 to take possession of 占有 zhànyǒu ‹premises›possession is nine-tenths of the law proverb 现实占有，败一胜九 ［指占有者在诉讼中总占上风］
④ UncountableSport (control of the ball) 控球 kòng qiú to be in or have possession 拥有控球权 to win/lose possession 赢得/失去控球权 
⑤ Uncountable(control by evil spirit) 附身 fù shēn 
⑥ Countable(country, territory) 领地 lǐngdì 
B.  possessions noun plural (personal property) 财产 cáichǎn 
possession 
pəˈzeSHən

▶noun
1 the state of having, owning, or controlling something: are you in possession of any items over $500 in value? 
he had taken possession of one of the sofas 
the book came into my possession. 
• Law visible power or control over something, as distinct from lawful ownership; holding or occupancy: both teams attempting to gain possession of the ball 
they were imprisoned for possession of explosives. 
• informal the state of possessing an illegal drug: they're charged with possession. 
• (in football, basketball, and other ball games) temporary control of the ball by a particular player or team: the ball hit a defender and Brown's quick reaction put him in possession.
2 (usually possessions) an item of property; something belonging to one: I was alone with no money or possessions 
that photograph was Bert's most precious possession. 
• a territory or country controlled or governed by another: France's former colonial possessions.
3 the state of being controlled by a demon or spirit: they prayed for protection against demonic possession. 
• the state of being completely under the influence of an idea or emotion: fear took possession of my soul. DERIVATIVES possessionless adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: from Old French, from Latin possessio(n-), from the verb possidere (see possess) .
