post
1 
BrE pəʊst, AmE poʊst 

A.  noun 
① (as support) 柱 zhù 
② (as marker) 标志杆 biāozhìgān starting/finishing or winning post 起点/终点杆 a corner post Sport 角杆 
③ Horse racing the post (beginning) 起点柱 (end) 终点柱 zhōngdiǎnzhù to be beaten at the post literal 在接近终点处被超过 figurative 在最后一刻被击败 zài zuìhòu yīkè bèi jībài to be left at the post 被远远抛在后面 to go or come to post «racehorse» 开始比赛 
④ (goalpost) 球门柱 qiúménzhù the ball bounced back off the post 球从门柱上反弹回来 
B.  transitive verb 
① (stick up) 张贴 zhāngtiē ‹poster, notice, rules›post no bills 禁止招贴 
② (announce) 公布 gōngbù ‹results, profit, loss›to post details on the Internet 在互联网上发布细节 to be posted (as) missing in action Military 被宣布在战斗中失踪 
③ (put posters on or in) 在…上张贴海报 zài… shang zhāngtiē hǎibào ‹place, wall, building›PHRASAL VERB post up transitive verb[post something up, post up something] 张贴 zhāngtiē ‹poster, notice, rules›
post
1 
pōst

▶noun
1 a long, sturdy piece of timber or metal set upright in the ground and used to support something or as a marker: follow the blue posts until the track meets a forestry road. 
• a goalpost: Robertson, at the near post, headed wide. 
• (the post) a starting post or winning post.
2 a piece of writing, image, or other item of content published online, typically on a blog or social media website. 
▶verb [with object]
1 display (a notice) in a public place: a curt notice had been posted on the door 
the exam results were posted this morning. 
• put notices on or in: we have posted all the bars.
2 announce or publish (something, especially a financial result): the company posted a $460,000 loss. 
• [with object and complement] publish the name of (a member of the armed forces) as missing or dead: a whole troop had been posted missing. 
• publish (a piece of writing, image, or other item of content) online, typically on a blog or social media website: she posted a photo of herself with the singer on Twitter 
I'll post an article next week revealing the results of the poll 
the list was promptly posted all over the Internet.
3 (of a player or team) achieve or record (a particular score or result): he posted a victory in Japan to lead the series. PHRASAL VERBS post up Basketball play in a position near the basket, along the side of the key.ORIGIN Old English, from Latin postis ‘doorpost,’ later ‘rod, beam,’ probably reinforced in Middle English by Old French post ‘pillar, beam’ and Middle Dutch and Middle Low German post ‘doorpost.’
