pot
1 
BrE pɒt, AmE pɑt 

A.  noun 
① Culinary (container for cooking) 锅 guō pots and pans 锅碗瓢盆 for the pot 用于烹饪的 it's the pot calling the kettle black proverb 五十步笑百步 a watched pot never boils proverb 守着水壶水难开 to keep the pot boiling (earn enough money to stay alive) 挣钱糊口 (keep going at a fast pace) 保持快速 to go to pot colloquial «business, person» 完蛋 «plans, hopes» 泡汤 pàotāng 
② (container) (for jam, fish paste, yogurt, etc.) 罐 guàn (for tea, coffee) 壶 hú (for paint, glue, ink) 桶 tǒng 
③ (contents) (jam, fish paste, yogurt, etc.) 一罐 yī guàn (tea, coffee) 一壶 yī hú (paint, glue, ink) 一桶 yī tǒng 
④ (piece of pottery) 陶盆 táopén to make or throw a pot 制作陶罐 
⑤ (container for plant) 花盆 huāpén plastic/clay pots 塑料/陶土花盆 a pot of chrysanthemums 一盆菊花 
⑥ (potty) 便盆 biànpén 
⑦ dated (tankard) 大啤酒杯 dà píjiǔbēi 
⑧ Fishing 捕虾蟹笼 bǔ xiā xiè lóng 
⑨ Sport colloquial (prize) 奖杯 jiǎngbēi [尤指银质奖杯]
⑩ colloquial (large sum of money) 巨款 jùkuǎn to have/make pots of money 有了/挣了一大笔钱 
⑪ (in cards) the pot 一局的全部赌注 yī jú de quánbù dǔzhù Jim raked in the pot 吉姆把一半的赌注收入囊中 
⑫ (pooled funds) the pot 凑集的资金 còují de zījīn 
⑬ Sport (in snooker, billiards, pool) 击球入袋 jī qiú rù dài 
B.  transitive verb 
① especially BrE (put in container) 把…装罐 bǎ… zhuāng guàn ‹jam, fish paste›
② (put in plant pot) 把…栽入花盆 bǎ… zāirù huāpén ‹cutting, plant›
③ BrE (sit on potty) 让…坐便盆 ràng… zuò biànpén ‹child›
④ (in snooker, billiards, pool) 击…入袋 jī… rù dài ‹ball›he needs to pot the red next 接下来他该打红球入袋了 
⑤ Hunting colloquial 射杀 shèshā ‹bird, animal›
C.  intransitive verb 
① (make pottery) 制作陶器 zhìzuò táoqì 
② (shoot) 射击 shèjī to pot at [something]; «hunter, poacher» 射击某物 PHRASAL VERBS pot on transitive verb[pot something on, pot on something] 把…移栽到大花盆 bǎ… yízāi dào dà huāpén ‹plant, cutting›pot up transitive verb[pot something up, pot up something] 把…移栽到花盆 bǎ… yízāi dào huāpén ‹cutting, seedling›
pot
1 
pät

▶noun
1 a container, typically rounded or cylindrical and of ceramic ware or metal, used for storage or cooking: clay pots for keeping water cool in summer 
a cooking pot. 
• [usually with modifier] any of various containers made for a particular purpose: a coffee pot. 
• a container for holding drink, especially beer. 
• the contents of any pot: a pot of coffee.
2 (the pot) the total sum of the bets made on a round in poker and other card games: Jim raked in the pot. 
• all the money contributed by a group of people for a particular purpose: in insurance, everybody puts money into the pot used to pay claims.
3 informal a potbelly.
4 (the pot) US informal a toilet. 
▶verb (pots, potted, potting) [with object]
1 plant in a flowerpot: pot individual cuttings as soon as you see new young leaves.
2 chiefly British preserve (food, especially meat or fish) in a sealed pot or jar: venison can be potted in the same way as tongue.
3 British Billiards another term for pocket.
4 informal hit or kill (someone or something) by shooting: he was shot in the eye as neighbors potted clay pigeons. 
PHRASES
for the pot for food or cooking: hens provided eggs as well as meat for the pot. go to pot informal deteriorate through neglect: the foundry was allowed to go to pot in the seventies. the pot calling the kettle black used to convey that the criticisms a person is aiming at someone else could equally well apply to themselves. pot of gold see gold. shit (or piss) or get off the pot vulgar slang used to convey that someone should stop wasting time and get on with something.DERIVATIVES potful 
-ˌfo͝ol 
noun (plural potfuls) ORIGIN late Old English pott, probably reinforced in Middle English by Old French pot; of unknown ultimate origin (compare with late Latin potus ‘drinking cup’). Current senses of the verb date from the early 17th century.
