practice 
BrE ˈpraktɪs, AmE ˈpræktəs 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(action, operation) 实践 shíjiàn to put [something] into practice 把某事付诸实践 in practice 实际上 the principles and practice of teaching 教学理论与实践 
② Uncountable(repetition, exercises) 练习 liànxí to be/keep in practice 在/保持练习 to be or get out of practice 疏于练习 two hours' practice a day 每天练习两小时 practice makes perfect proverb 熟能生巧 
③ Uncountable(procedure) 常规 chángguī to be good/common/accepted/standard practice to do [something] 是做某事的优良/一般/公认/标准做法 
④ Countable(habit, custom) 习惯 xíguàn the practice of doing [something] 做某事的习惯 as is my (usual) practice, I got up at
6 a.m. 我一如既往地在早上6点钟起床了 
⑤ Uncountable and countable(of doctor, lawyer) 工作 gōngzuò to set up in or go into practice (as a doctor/lawyer) 开始执业（行医/做律师） to work in general/private practice 从事普通诊疗/开设私人诊所行医 she has a profitable medical/legal practice 她的诊所/律师事务所很赚钱 a large/efficiently-run practice 规模很大的/高效运营的执业机构 
B.  adjectivebefore noun 训练的 xùnliàn de ‹exam, game, flight, session›
C.  transitive verb, intransitive verb AmE = practise 
practice 
ˈpraktəs

▶noun
1 the actual application or use of an idea, belief, or method as opposed to theories about such application or use: the principles and practice of teaching 
he put his self-defense training into practice by helping police arrest the armed robber. 
• the customary, habitual, or expected procedure of something: current nursing practice 
modern child-rearing practices. 
• the carrying out or exercise of a profession, especially that of a doctor or lawyer: he abandoned medical practice for the Church. 
• the business or premises of a doctor or lawyer: Dr. Weiss has a practice in Essex. 
• an established method of legal procedure.
2 repeated exercise in or performance of an activity or skill so as to acquire or maintain proficiency in it: it must have taken a lot of practice to become so fluent. 
• a period of time spent doing this: daily choir practices. 
▶verb [with object] (British practise)
1 perform (an activity) or exercise (a skill) repeatedly or regularly in order to improve or maintain one's proficiency: I need to practice my French 
[no object] : they were practicing for the Olympics.
2 carry out or perform (a particular activity, method, or custom) habitually or regularly: we still practice some of these rituals today. 
• actively pursue or be engaged in (a particular profession or occupation): he began to practice law 
[no object] : he practiced as an attorney 
(as adjective practicing) : a practicing architect. 
• observe the teaching and rules of (a particular religion): they are free to practice their religion without fear of persecution 
(as adjective practicing) : a practicing Roman Catholic. 
• [no object] archaic scheme or plot for an evil purpose: what a tangled web we weave when we first practice to deceive. 
PHRASES
in practice in reality (used to refer to what actually happens as opposed to what is meant or believed to happen): in theory this method is ideal—in practice it is unrealistic. 
• currently proficient in a particular activity or skill as a result of repeated exercise or performance of it. out of practice not currently proficient in a particular activity or skill due to not having exercised or performed it for some time: he was out of practice at interrogation. practice makes perfect used to convey that regular exercise of an activity or skill is the way to become proficient in it, especially when encouraging someone to persist in it. practice what one preaches do what one advises others to do.DERIVATIVES practicer nounORIGIN late Middle English: the verb from Old French practiser or medieval Latin practizare, alteration of practicare ‘perform, carry out,’ from practica ‘practice,’ from Greek praktikē, feminine (used as a noun) of praktikos (see practical); the noun from the verb in the earlier spelling practise, on the pattern of pairs such as advise, advice.
