practise 
BrE ˈpraktɪs, AmE ˈpræktəs
BrE 
A.  transitive verb 
① (work at) 练习 liànxí to practise the piano 练习弹钢琴 to practise doing or how to do [something] 练习做某事 to practise one's French on [somebody] 跟某人练习法语 
② (use) 实施 shíshī they practise birth control 他们实行计划生育 it is a method of breathing practised by yogis 这是瑜伽修炼者采用的呼吸方法 to practise what one preaches 身体力行 
③ (observe) 奉行 fèngxíng ‹faith, rules, beliefs›she practises Buddhism 她信奉佛教 
④ (exercise) 养成…的习惯 yǎngchéng… de xíguàn ‹patience, tolerance, self-control›to practise economy 厉行节约 
⑤ (follow a profession) 从事 cóngshì to practise medicine/law 行医/做律师 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (work at) 练习 liànxí to practise for [something] 为…而练习 ‹exam, interview›
② (follow a profession) 执业 zhíyè to practise as a lawyer/doctor 从事律师工作/做医生 
practice 
ˈpraktəs

▶noun
1 the actual application or use of an idea, belief, or method as opposed to theories about such application or use: the principles and practice of teaching 
he put his self-defense training into practice by helping police arrest the armed robber. 
• the customary, habitual, or expected procedure of something: current nursing practice 
modern child-rearing practices. 
• the carrying out or exercise of a profession, especially that of a doctor or lawyer: he abandoned medical practice for the Church. 
• the business or premises of a doctor or lawyer: Dr. Weiss has a practice in Essex. 
• an established method of legal procedure.
2 repeated exercise in or performance of an activity or skill so as to acquire or maintain proficiency in it: it must have taken a lot of practice to become so fluent. 
• a period of time spent doing this: daily choir practices. 
▶verb [with object] (British practise)
1 perform (an activity) or exercise (a skill) repeatedly or regularly in order to improve or maintain one's proficiency: I need to practice my French 
[no object] : they were practicing for the Olympics.
2 carry out or perform (a particular activity, method, or custom) habitually or regularly: we still practice some of these rituals today. 
• actively pursue or be engaged in (a particular profession or occupation): he began to practice law 
[no object] : he practiced as an attorney 
(as adjective practicing) : a practicing architect. 
• observe the teaching and rules of (a particular religion): they are free to practice their religion without fear of persecution 
(as adjective practicing) : a practicing Roman Catholic. 
• [no object] archaic scheme or plot for an evil purpose: what a tangled web we weave when we first practice to deceive. 
PHRASES
in practice in reality (used to refer to what actually happens as opposed to what is meant or believed to happen): in theory this method is ideal—in practice it is unrealistic. 
• currently proficient in a particular activity or skill as a result of repeated exercise or performance of it. out of practice not currently proficient in a particular activity or skill due to not having exercised or performed it for some time: he was out of practice at interrogation. practice makes perfect used to convey that regular exercise of an activity or skill is the way to become proficient in it, especially when encouraging someone to persist in it. practice what one preaches do what one advises others to do.DERIVATIVES practicer nounORIGIN late Middle English: the verb from Old French practiser or medieval Latin practizare, alteration of practicare ‘perform, carry out,’ from practica ‘practice,’ from Greek praktikē, feminine (used as a noun) of praktikos (see practical); the noun from the verb in the earlier spelling practise, on the pattern of pairs such as advise, advice.
