present
1 
AmE ˈprɛz(ə)nt 

A.  adjective 
① predicative (in attendance) 在场的 zàichǎng de to be present at [something]; 出席 ‹meeting, ceremony›all those or everybody present 在场的所有人 you are ever present in my thoughts 我总是想到你 present company excepted 在座诸位除外 all present and correct BrE or accounted for AmE 全体到齐 
② predicative (found, existing) 存在的 cúnzài de to be present in [something]; 存在于某物中 oxygen present in the atmosphere 大气中的氧气 
③ attributive (current) 当前的 dāngqián de ‹situation, problem›; 现在的 xiànzài de ‹address, price, owner›; 现行的 xiànxíng de ‹system›; 现任的 xiànrèn de ‹president›in the present climate figurative 在目前的情况下 the present government 现政府 [somebody's] present wife 某人现在的妻子 on present form Sport 根据目前的表现 the present day (nowadays) 如今 (modern times) 现代 up to the present day 迄今 at the present time or moment 目前 mùqián (in) the present month （在）本月 
④ attributive (under consideration) [表示当下涉及的]the present case/article/plan 本案/本文/本计划 
⑤ attributive Linguistics 现在的 xiànzài de the present tense 现在时 xiànzàishí 
B.  nounUncountable
① (now) the present 现在 xiànzài at present (at this moment) 此刻 cǐkè (currently) 目前 mùqián for the present 暂时 zànshí to live in the present (enjoy) 享受眼前的一切 xiǎngshòu yǎnqián de yīqiè (be free from worry) 只顾今朝 zhǐ gù jīnzhāo there is no time like the present proverb 机不可失，时不再来 
② Linguistics the present 现在时 xiànzàishí the verb is in the present 这个动词用的是现在式 
present
1 
ˈprez(ə)nt

▶adjective
1 [predicative] (of a person) in a particular place: a doctor must be present at the ringside 
the speech caused embarrassment to all those present. 
• (of a thing) existing or occurring in a place or thing: organic molecules are present in comets.
2 [attributive] existing or occurring now: she did not expect to find herself in her present situation. 
• now being considered or discussed: the present article cannot answer every question. 
• Grammar (of a tense or participle) expressing an action now going on or habitually performed or a condition now existing. 
▶noun [in singular] (usually the present) the period of time now occurring: they are happy and at peace, refusing to think beyond the present. 
• Grammar a present tense: the verbs are all in the present. See also historic present. 
PHRASES
at present now: membership at present stands at about 5,000. for the present for now; temporarily. (there is) no time like the present used to suggest that something should be done now rather than later: “When do you want me to leave?” “No time like the present.” present company excepted excluding those who are here now. these presents Law, formal this document: the premises outlined in red on the Plan annexed to these presents.ORIGIN Middle English: via Old French from Latin praesent- ‘being at hand,’ present participle of praeesse, from prae ‘before’ + esse ‘be.’
