preserve 
BrE prɪˈzəːv, AmE prəˈzərv 

A.  transitive verb 
① (save) 保护 bǎohù ‹buildings, manuscripts, traditions, environment›to preserve [something] for [something]; 为某目的保护某物 
② (maintain, keep) 保养 bǎoyǎng ‹old furniture, leather›; 保持 bǎochí ‹standards, peace, dignity›; 维护 wéihù ‹rights, reputation›
③ (save life of) 拯救 zhěngjiù ‹life, passengers›God preserve us! dated 我的天啊！ heaven or the saints preserve us from that! dated 老天保佑我们！ 
④ Culinary 保藏 bǎocáng ‹vegetables, fruit, meat›
B.  noun 
① Countable and uncountable(fruit) 水果蜜饯 shuǐguǒ mìjiàn (vegetable) 腌菜 yāncài (chutney) 酸辣酱 suānlàjiàng 
② Countable and uncountable(jam) 果酱 guǒjiàng 
③ Countable(for wildlife conservation) 野生动植物保护区 yěshēng dòngzhíwù bǎohùqū (for private use) 私人渔猎场 sīrén yúlièchǎng a fishing/hunting preserve 禁渔/禁猎地 
④ Countable(sphere of activity) 专门领域 zhuānmén lǐngyù to be a male preserve 为男性专有 
preserve 
prəˈzərv

▶verb [with object] maintain (something) in its original or existing state: all records of the past were zealously preserved 
(as adjective preserved) : a magnificently preserved monastery. 
• retain (a condition or state of affairs): a fight to preserve local democracy. 
• maintain or keep alive (a memory or quality): the film has preserved all the qualities of the novel. 
• keep safe from harm or injury: a place for preserving endangered species. 
• treat or refrigerate (food) to prevent its decomposition or fermentation. 
• prepare (fruit) for long-term storage by boiling it with sugar: (as adjective preserved) : those sweet preserved fruits associated with Cremona. 
• keep (game or an area where game is found) undisturbed to allow private hunting or shooting. 
▶noun
1 (usually preserves) food made with fruit preserved in sugar, such as jam or marmalade: home-made preserves.
2 a sphere of activity regarded as being reserved for a particular person or group: the civil service became the preserve of the educated middle class.
3 chiefly North American a place where game is protected and kept for private hunting or shooting. DERIVATIVES preservable 
prəˈzərvəb(ə)l 
adjective. preserver 
prəˈzərvər 
nounORIGIN late Middle English (in the sense ‘keep safe from harm’): from Old French preserver, from late Latin praeservare, from prae- ‘before, in advance’ + servare ‘to keep.’
