pride 
BrE prʌɪd, AmE praɪd 
A. noun 
① Uncountable(satisfaction) 骄傲 jiāo'ào a source of pride to [somebody] 某人的骄傲 to burst or glow with pride 满怀自豪 to fill [somebody] with pride 让某人充满自豪 to take pride in [something] 为某事物骄傲 
② Uncountable(self-respect) 自尊 zìzūn to hurt or wound [somebody's] pride 伤害某人的自尊心 a blow to [somebody's] pride 对某人自尊心的打击 pride alone prevented him from resigning 他只是出于尊严而没有辞职 a false sense of pride 妄自尊大 to swallow one's pride 收起自尊 family/national/male pride 家族/民族/男性自尊心 
③ Uncountablepejorative (conceit) 自负 zìfù puffed up with pride 自鸣得意的 pride goes or comes before a fall proverb 骄者必败 
④ Uncountable and countable(source of satisfaction) (person) 值得骄傲的人 zhídé jiāo'ào de rén (thing) 值得骄傲的事物 zhídé jiāo'ào de shìwù to be the pride of [somebody]/[something]; 是某人/某事物的骄傲 to be [somebody's] pride and joy (person) 是某人最引以为豪的人 (thing) 是某人最引以为豪的事物 to have or take pride of place 处于最荣耀的位置 to give [somebody]/[something] pride of place 突出某人/某事物 
⑤ Countable(of lions) 狮群 shīqún a pride of lions 一群狮子 
B.  reflexive verb to pride oneself on [something]/doing [something]; 为某事物/做某事而自豪 wèi mǒu shìwù/zuò mǒu shì ér zìháo 
pride 
▶noun
1 their triumphs were a source of pride: self-esteem, dignity, honor, self-respect, self-worth, self-regard, pride in oneself. ANTONYMS shame.
2 take pride in a good job well done: pleasure, joy, delight, gratification, fulfillment, satisfaction, a sense of achievement.
3 he refused her offer out of pride: arrogance, vanity, self-importance, hubris, conceit, conceitedness, self-love, self-adulation, self-admiration, narcissism, egotism, superciliousness, haughtiness, snobbery, snobbishness; informal big-headedness; literary vainglory. ANTONYMS modesty, humility.
4 the bull is the pride of the herd: best, finest, top, cream, pick, choice, prize, glory, jewel in the crown. ANTONYMS dregs.
5 the rose-covered trellis was the pride of the gardener: source of satisfaction, pride and joy, treasured possession, joy, delight.
PHRASES
pride oneself on Lucas prides himself on his knowledge of wine: be proud of, be proud of oneself for, take pride in, take satisfaction in, congratulate oneself on, pat oneself on the back for. CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD pride, arrogance, conceit, egotism, self-esteem, vainglory, vanity If you take pride in yourself or your accomplishments, it means that you believe in your own worth, merit, or superiority—whether or not that belief is justified (she took pride in her work). When your opinion of yourself is exaggerated, you're showing conceit, a word that combines pride with self-obsession. If you like to be noticed and admired for your appearance or achievements, you're revealing your vanity, and if you show off or boast about your accomplishments, you're likely to be accused of vainglory, a somewhat literary term for a self-important display of power, skill, or influence. Arrogance is an overbearing pride combined with disdain for others (his arrogance led him to assume that everyone else would obey his orders), while egotism implies self-centeredness or an excessive preoccupation with yourself (blinded by egotism to the suffering of others). While no one wants to be accused of arrogance or egotism, there's a lot to be said for self-esteem, which may suggest undue pride but is more often used to describe a healthy belief in oneself and respect for one's worth as a person (she suffered from low self-esteem).These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
