prime 
BrE prʌɪm, AmE praɪm 

A.  adjectiveattributive 
① (chief) 首要的 shǒuyào de their prime concern is … 他们最关心的是… of prime importance 最重要的 
② (most suitable) 最合适的 zuì héshì de ‹candidate, target›
③ (good quality) 最好的 zuì hǎo de a prime site in the city centre 市中心的最佳地段 prime cuts of meat 上好的肉块 to be in prime condition «foodstuffs» 处于最新鲜的状态 «livestock» 处于最健壮的时期 chǔyú zuì jiànzhuàng de shíqī «machine» 处于最佳的运行状态 chǔyú zuì jiā de yùnxíng zhuàngtài to be of prime quality «product» 质量上乘 
④ (classic) 典型的 diǎnxíng de ‹example›
⑤ Mathematics 素数的 sùshù de 
B.  noun 
① Countable(peak period) 盛年 shèngnián to be in one's prime (in age) 正值壮年 (in career) 正值巅峰期 to be in its prime «organization, style» 正值全盛期 «plants» 正值鼎盛花期 zhèng zhí dǐngshèng huāqī «machine» 处于性能最佳时期 chǔyú xìngnéng zuì jiā shíqī to be past one's prime 已过壮年 to be in the prime of life 正值英姿勃发的年华 
② CountableMathematics 素数 sùshù 
③ CountablePrinting 上标符号 shàngbiāo fúhào 
④ UncountableReligion 晨经 chénjīng 
C.  transitive verb 
① (brief) 事先指点 shìxiān zhǐdiǎn to prime [somebody] about [something]; 事先告知某人 ‹circumstances›to prime [somebody] with [something]; 事先向某人提供 ‹facts, information›to be (well) primed for [something] 为某事作好（充分）准备 
② Construction (for painting) 在…上涂底漆 zài… shang tú dǐqī 
③ Technology 给…注水启动 gěi… zhù shuǐ qǐdòng ‹pump›the money was intended to prime the community-care pump 这笔经费旨在振兴社区保健事业 
④ Military 给…装火药 gěi… zhuāng huǒyào the bomb was primed 炸弹装有火药 
⑤ to be well primed colloquial (with food) 吃得很饱 chī de hěn bǎo (with drink) 喝足了饮料 hēzúle yǐnliào 
D.  reflexive verb to prime oneself with [something]; (food) 吃饱某物 chībǎo mǒu wù (drink) 喝足某物 hēzú mǒu wù 
prime
1 
prīm

▶adjective
1 of first importance; main: her prime concern is the well-being of the patient. 
• from which another thing may derive or proceed: Diogenes' conclusion that air is the prime matter.
2 [attributive] of the best possible quality; excellent: a prime site in the center of Indianapolis 
prime cuts of meat. 
• having all the expected or typical characteristics of something: the novel is a prime example of the genre. 
• most suitable or likely: it's the prime contender for best comedy of the year.
3 Mathematics (of a number) evenly divisible only by itself and one (e.g., 2, 3, 5, 7, 11). 
• [predicative] (of two or more numbers in relation to each other) having no common factor but one. 
▶noun
1 [in singular] a state or time of greatest strength, vigor, or success in a person's life: you're in the prime of life 
he wasn't elderly, but clearly past his prime. 
• archaic the beginning or first period of something: the prime of the world.
2 Christian Church a service forming part of the Divine Office, traditionally said (or chanted) at the first hour of the day (i.e.,
6 a.m.), but now little used.
3 a prime number.
4 Printing a symbol (ʹ) written after a letter or symbol as a distinguishing mark or after a figure as a symbol for minutes or feet.
5 Fencing the first of eight standard parrying positions. [French.]
6 short for prime rate. DERIVATIVES primeness nounORIGIN Old English prīm ( sense
2 of the noun), from Latin prima (hora)‘first (hour),’ reinforced in Middle English by Old French prime; the adjective dates from late Middle English, via Old French from Latin primus ‘first.’
