print 
BrE prɪnt, AmE prɪnt 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(typeface, lettering) 字体 zìtǐ the title is in roman/italic print 标题用的是罗马体/斜体 large/small print 大/小号字体 to set [something] up in print 给…排版 ‹text›
② Uncountable(printed text) 印刷品 yìnshuāpǐn a page of print 印刷页 the print media 印刷媒体 the medium of print 印刷媒体 print quality/format 印刷质量/格式 
③ Uncountable(availability in published form) 出版 chūbǎn in/out of print 已出版/绝版的 to put or get [something] into print 出版某物 to appear in or get into print «book» 出版 chūbǎn to see [something]/oneself in print 看到某物/自己的作品出版 at the time of going to print 在付印之际 to rush [something] into print 匆忙发表某物 
④ Countable(of finger) 指印 zhǐyìn (of hand) 掌印 zhǎngyìn (of foot, paw) 足迹 zújì (of hoof) 蹄印 tíyìn (of tyre) 印记 yìnjì the print of a pattern in a mould 模具印出的图案 
⑤ CountableArt 版画 bǎnhuà 
⑥ CountablePhotography 照片 zhàopiàn to make a print from a negative 用底片印照片 
⑦ Countable and uncountable(on fabric) 印花布 yìnhuābù light summer prints 轻薄的印花夏装 a print dress/curtain 印花连衣裙/窗帘 
⑧ Uncountable(writing) 印刷体书写 yìnshuātǐ shūxiě 
B.  prints noun plural (fingerprints) 指纹 zhǐwén a set of prints 一组指纹 to take [somebody's] prints 提取某人的指纹 
C.  transitive verb 
① Printing 印刷 yìnshuā ‹text, image, banknote, book›to print [something] in lower case/upper case/italics 用小写字体/大写字体/斜体印刷某物 printed matter 印刷品 yìnshuāpǐn printed notepaper 印有信头的信纸 printed in China 中国印制 over 1,000 copies of the book have been printed 该书已印了1,000多册 
② (publish) 刊登 kāndēng ‹article, allegation, interview›the newspaper is going to print the story 该报纸将要刊登这篇报道 the printed word 已发表的文字 
③ (write) 用印刷体写 yòng yìnshuātǐ xiě print your name in block capitals/in black ink 请用印刷体正体大写字母/黑色墨水并用印刷体书写姓名 
④ (make impression of) 印上 yìnshang ‹letters, design›to print [something] on [somebody's] memory figurative 让某人铭记某事物 
⑤ (make impression on) 印染 yìnrǎn to print fabrics (with …) （把…）印上布料 printed cotton/wallpaper 印花棉布/墙纸 
⑥ Photography 洗印 xǐyìn ‹photograph›how many copies shall I print? 我要印多少张呢？ 
D.  intransitive verb 
① (write) 用印刷体写 yòng yìnshuātǐ xiě to learn to print 学写印刷体 
② Printing 印刷 yìnshuā 
③ Computing 打印 dǎyìn 
④ Photography «plate, negative» 冲印 chōngyìn PHRASAL VERBS print off transitive verb[print something off, print off something] 大量印刷 dàliàng yìnshuā print out 
A.  transitive verb[print something out, print out something] 打印出 dǎyìn chū 
B.  intransitive verb 被打印出 bèi dǎyìn chū the report won't print out on a single page 这份报告一张纸印不下 
print 
print

▶verb [with object]
1 produce (books, newspapers, magazines, etc.), especially in large quantities, by a mechanical process involving the transfer of text, images, or designs to paper: a thousand copies of the book were printed. 
• produce (text or a picture) by printing: the words had been printed in blue type. 
• (of a newspaper or magazine) publish (a piece of writing) within its pages: the article was printed in the first edition. 
• (of a publisher or printer) arrange for (a book, manuscript, etc.) to be reproduced in large quantities: Harper printed her memoirs in 1930. 
• produce a paper copy of (information stored on a computer): the results of a search can be printed out. 
• send (a computer file) to a printer or to another, temporary file. 
• produce (a photographic print) from a negative: any make of film can be developed and printed.
2 write (text) clearly without joining the letters: print your name and address on the back of the check 
[no object] : it will be easier to read if I print.
3 mark (a surface, typically a textile or a garment) with a colored design or pattern: a delicate fabric printed with roses. 
• transfer (a colored design or pattern) to a surface: patterns of birds, flowers, and trees were printed on the cotton. 
• make (a mark or indentation) on a surface or in a soft substance by pressing something onto it: he printed a mark on her soft skin. 
• mark or indent (the surface of a soft substance): we printed the butter with carved wooden butter molds. 
• fix (something) firmly or indelibly in someone's mind: his face, with its clearly drawn features, was printed on her memory. 
▶noun
1 the text appearing in a book, newspaper, or other printed publication, especially with reference to its size, form, or style: squinting at the tiny print 
bold print. 
• the state of being available in published form: the news will never get into print. 
• a newspaper or magazine: [as modifier] : the print media. 
• [as modifier] relating to the printing industry or the printed media: the print unions 
a print worker.
2 an indentation or mark left on a surface or soft substance by pressure, especially that of a foot or hand: there were paw prints everywhere. 
• (prints) fingerprints: the FBI matched the prints to those of the Las Vegas drug suspect.
3 a picture or design printed from a block or plate or copied from a painting by photography: the walls were hung with wildlife prints. 
• a photograph printed on paper from a negative or transparency. 
• a copy of a motion picture on film, especially a particular version of it.
4 a piece of fabric or clothing with a decorative colored pattern or design printed on it: light summer prints 
[as modifier] : a floral print dress. 
• a printed pattern or design. 
PHRASES
appear in print (of an author) have one's work published. in print
1 (of a book) available from the publisher: he was surprised to find it was still in print.
2 in printed or published form: she did not live to see her work in print. out of print (of a book) no longer available from the publisher: the title I want is out of print. the printed word language or ideas as expressed in books, newspapers, or other publications, especially when contrasted with their expression in speech.ORIGIN Middle English (denoting the impression made by a stamp or seal): from Old French preinte ‘pressed,’ feminine past participle of preindre, from Latin premere ‘to press.’
