private 
BrE ˈprʌɪvət, AmE ˈpraɪvɪt 

A.  adjective 
① (not for general public) 私人的 sīrén de a private viewing of a film/exhibition 私下观看电影/展览 private and personal or confidential 私密的 private facilities 独立卫浴 for [somebody's] (own) private use 供某人私人使用 the wedding/funeral will be private 婚礼/葬礼将不公开举行 private study 自学 a person with private means/a private income 有个人财产/收入的人 in [somebody's] private life 在某人的私生活中 (to act) in a private capacity or as a private person 以私人身份（行事） the private citizen 平民 
② (not openly revealed) 秘密的 mìmì de ‹agreement, information›; 私下的 sīxià de ‹opinion, conversation, meeting›they came to or had a private understanding 他们秘密达成了谅解 a private joke 外人听不懂的笑话 [somebody's] private thoughts 某人私下的想法 please keep the matter private 请对这件事保密 to have a private chat or talk with [somebody] 与某人密谈 the private hearing of a case 案件的非公开听审 
③ (secretive) 内向的 nèixiàng de ‹person›
④ (free from people) 僻静的 pìjìng de ‹place, spot, corner›
⑤ predicative (undisturbed) 不受打扰的 bù shòu dǎrǎo de let's go upstairs where we can be a bit more private 我们上楼去吧，那里清静些 
⑥ (not state-run) 私立的 sīlì de ‹hospital, school›; 私营的 sīyíng de ‹company›to be in private employment 受私营企业雇用 private ownership/bank 私有制/私人银行 she's having private maths lessons 她在请家教学数学 to go private BrE 选择自费医疗 
⑦ Busn 个人之间的 gèrén zhījiān de ‹transaction, sale›
B.  noun 
① CountableMilitary 列兵 lièbīng he enlisted as a private 他参军当了兵 Private Taylor 列兵泰勒 
② Uncountablein private 私下 sīxià 
C.  privates noun plural colloquial euphemistic 私处 sīchù euphemistic 
private 
ˈprīvit

▶adjective
1 belonging to or for the use of one particular person or group of people only: all bedrooms have private facilities 
his private plane. 
• (of a situation, activity, or gathering) affecting or involving only a particular person or group of people: a small private service in the chapel. 
• (of thoughts and feelings) not to be shared with or revealed to others: she felt awkward intruding on private grief. 
• (of a person) not choosing to share thoughts and feelings with others: he was a very private man. 
• (of a meeting or discussion) involving only a small number of people and dealing with matters that are not to be disclosed to others: this is a private conversation. 
• (of a place) quiet and free from people who can interrupt: can we go somewhere a little more private?
2 (of a person) having no official or public role or position: the paintings were sold to a private collector. 
• not connected with one's work or official position: he would continue to represent her in a private capacity as advisor and confidant.
3 (of a service or industry) provided or owned by an individual or an independent, commercial company rather than by the government: research projects carried out by private industry 
more than 1,400 state enterprises that were about to go private. 
• relating to a system of education or medical treatment conducted outside the system of government and charging fees to the individuals who make use of it. 
• relating to or denoting a transaction between individuals and not involving commercial organizations: it was a private sale—no agent's commission. 
▶noun
1 a soldier of the lowest rank, in particular an enlisted person in the US Army or Marine Corps ranking below private first class.
2 (privates) informal short for private parts. 
PHRASES
in private with no one else present: I've got to talk to you in private.ORIGIN late Middle English (originally denoting a person not acting in an official capacity): from Latin privatus ‘withdrawn from public life,’ a use of the past participle of privare ‘bereave, deprive,’ from privus ‘single, individual.’
