prize
1 
BrE prʌɪz, AmE praɪz 

A.  noun 
① (in competition) 奖品 jiǎngpǐn (in lottery) 奖 jiǎng to win a prize 获奖 a cash prize 现金奖励 first/second prize 一等奖/二等奖 to award or give a prize 发奖 there are no prizes for guessing 这是明摆着的 
② (reward for effort) 回报 huíbào happiness is a prize worth striving for 幸福值得努力追求 
B.  adjectiveattributive 
① (victorious) 获奖的 huòjiǎng de ‹rose, sheep, exhibit›
② (treasured) 珍视的 zhēnshì de ‹possession, glasses, tea set›
③ figurative (perfect) 典型的 diǎnxíng de ‹example›; 十足的 shízú de ‹idiot, fool›
④ (with prize as a reward) 有奖的 yǒujiǎng de ‹crossword, draw›
C.  transitive verb (value) 珍视 zhēnshì ‹independence, work›a prized possession 最珍爱的财物 to be prized for [something] 因某物而受到高度重视 
prize
1 
prīz

▶noun a thing given as a reward to the winner of a competition or race or in recognition of another outstanding achievement: the nation's most prestigious prize for contemporary art. 
• a thing, especially an amount of money or a valuable object, that can be won in a lottery or other game of chance: the grand prize in the drawing 
[as modifier] : prize money. 
• something of great value that is worth struggling to achieve: the prize will be victory in the general election. 
• chiefly historical an enemy ship captured during the course of naval warfare. [late Middle English: from Old French prise ‘taking, booty,’ from prendre ‘take.’] 
▶adjective [attributive] (especially of something entered in a competition) having been or likely to be awarded a prize: prize onions 
a prize bull. 
• denoting something for which a prize is awarded: a prize crossword. 
• excellent of its kind; outstanding: a prize example of how well organic farming can function. 
• complete; utter: you must think I'm a prize idiot. 
▶verb [with object] value extremely highly: the berries were prized for their healing properties 
(as adjective prized) : the bicycle was her most prized possession. ORIGIN Middle English: the noun, a variant of price; the verb (originally in the sense ‘estimate the value of’) from Old French pris-, stem of preisier ‘to praise, appraise’ (see praise) .
