problem 
BrE ˈprɒbləm, AmE ˈprɑbləm 
noun 
① (difficulty) 问题 wèntí to have a weight/housing/marital problem 有肥胖/住房/婚姻问题 to cause or create or pose or present a problem 引发问题 to bring up or raise/resolve or settle/tackle or address a problem 提出/解决/处理问题 it's a real problem 这确实是个问题 it's a bit of a problem 这有点问题 that's the least of my problems! 那不关我的事！ the problem is that … 问题是… what's the problem? colloquial 怎么啦？ what's your problem? colloquial 你怎么了？ to be a problem to [somebody]; 对某人来说是个难题 to have problems with [something]; 在某方面有问题 health problems 健康问题 it's a problem to get or getting him to concentrate 想让他集中注意力很难 to have a problem in doing [something]; 做某事有困难 I had no problem in finding the house 我没费劲儿就找到了那所房子 no problem! 没问题！ to have a problem with [something] colloquial 反对某事 
② (question, test) 题目 tímù to solve a problem 解答题目 to do problems at school 在学校做题 a chess problem 棋题 
③ before noun (problematic) 成问题的 chéng wèntí de a problem child/family 问题儿童/家庭 
④ before noun Literature (social) 有关社会问题的 yǒuguān shèhuì wèntí de (moral) 有关道德问题的 yǒuguān dàodé wèntí de a problem novel/play 问题小说/戏剧 
problem 
ˈpräbləm

▶noun
1 a matter or situation regarded as unwelcome or harmful and needing to be dealt with and overcome: they have financial problems 
the problem of ageism in Hollywood. 
• a thing that is difficult to achieve or accomplish: motivation of staff can also be a problem. 
• [as modifier] denoting or relating to people whose behavior causes difficulties to themselves and others: practitioners help families develop strategies for managing problem behavior in teens 
a problem family.
2 Physics & Mathematics an inquiry starting from given conditions to investigate or demonstrate a fact, result, or law. 
• Geometry a proposition in which something has to be constructed. Compare with theorem. 
• (in various games, especially chess) an arrangement of pieces in which the solver has to achieve a specified result. 
PHRASES
have a problem with disagree with or have an objection to: I have no problem with shopping on Sundays. no problem used to express one's agreement or acquiescence: “Can you help?” “No problem.” that's your (or his, or her, etc.) problem (said with emphatic stress on pronoun) used to express one's lack of interest in or sympathy with the problems or misfortunes of another person: he'd made a mistake but that was his problem.ORIGIN late Middle English (originally denoting a riddle or a question for academic discussion): from Old French probleme, via Latin from Greek problēma, from proballein ‘put forth,’ from pro ‘before’ + ballein ‘to throw.’
