produce 
A.  /BrE prəˈdjuːs, AmE prəˈd(j)us
transitive verb 
① (manufacture, create) 生产 shēngchǎn ‹car, radio›; 制造 zhìzào ‹ship›; 制作 zhìzuò ‹work of art, furniture›; 制订 zhìdìng ‹timetable›; 提出 tíchū ‹idea›to produce [something] from [something]; 用某物做某物 to produce a meal 做出一顿饭 
② (supply, yield) 出产 chūchǎn ‹oil, food›; 产生 chǎnshēng ‹interest, profit›; 培养 péiyǎng ‹scientist, artist›these vineyards produce excellent wines 这些葡萄园出产美酒 the investment can be expected to produce a return of 12% 这笔投资预期回报率为12％ the country that produced Li Tai-po 培育出李太白的国度 
③ (generate) 产生 chǎnshēng ‹heat, energy, gas›to produce electricity from coal 用煤炭发电 a Chinese instrument that produces a beautiful sound 奏出优美乐声的中国乐器 
④ (create biologically) 生育 shēngyù ‹offspring›; 产生 chǎnshēng ‹secretion›; 产出 chǎnchū ‹nectar, pollen›to encourage people to produce fewer children 鼓励人们节育 to produce leaves/flowers/fruit «plant» 长叶/开花/结果 
⑤ (cause) 引起 yǐnqǐ ‹change, interest›; 激起 jīqǐ ‹reaction, anger›; 产生 chǎnshēng ‹result, effect›
⑥ (present, show) 出示 chūshì ‹letter, passport, ticket›; 掏出 tāochū ‹money, gun›; 提出 tíchū ‹evidence, argument›to produce [something] from … 从…中掏出某物 ‹pocket, bag›to produce [something] from behind one's back 从背后拿出某物 
⑦ Cinema, Theatre 制作 zhìzuò ‹film, play, programme, record›well-produced 制作精良的 
B.  /BrE ˈprɒdjuːs, AmE ˈprɑd(j)us, ˈproʊd(j)us
noun Uncountable农产品 nóngchǎnpǐn agricultural/garden/farm produce 农业/园圃/农产品 
produce 
▶verb 
prəˈd(y)o͞os 
[with object]
1 make or manufacture from components or raw materials: the company has just produced a luxury version of the aircraft. 
• (of a region, country, or process) yield, grow, or supply: the California vineyards produce excellent wines. 
• create or form (something) as part of a physical, biological, or chemical process: the plant produces blue flowers in late autumn. 
• make (something) using creative or mental skills: the garden where the artist produced many of his flower paintings.
2 cause (a particular result or situation) to happen or come into existence: no conventional drugs had produced any significant change.
3 show or provide (something) for consideration, inspection, or use: he produced a sheet of paper from his pocket.
4 administer the financial and managerial aspects of (a movie or broadcast) or the staging of (a play, opera, etc.). 
• supervise the making of a (musical recording), especially by determining the overall sound.
5 Geometry, dated extend or continue (a line): one side of the triangle was produced. 
▶noun 
ˈpräd(y)o͞os ˈprōd(y)o͞os 
things that have been produced or grown, especially by farming: dairy produce. DERIVATIVES producibility 
prəˌd(y)o͞osəˈbilətē, prō- 
noun. producible 
prəˈd(y)o͞osəb(ə)l 
adjectiveORIGIN late Middle English ( sense
3 of the verb): from Latin producere, from pro- ‘forward’ + ducere ‘to lead.’ Current noun senses date from the late 17th century.
