profile 
BrE ˈprəʊfʌɪl, AmE ˈproʊˌfaɪl 

A.  noun 
① (of face) 侧面 cèmiàn photographs taken in profile 侧面相片 
② (image) 形象 xíngxiàng to maintain or keep a high/low profile 保持高/低姿态 raising the profile of women in industry 提升女性在工业界的形象 
③ (outline) 轮廓 lúnkuò ; (vertical cross-section) 纵断面 zòngduànmiàn 
④ Journalism, Television (description) 概述 gàishù 
⑤ (analysis) 数据图表 shùjù túbiǎo a DNA/psychological profile DNA序列图/心理特征图 
B.  transitive verb 简要介绍 jiǎnyào jièshào ‹writer, organization›
profile 
ˈprōˌfīl

▶noun
1 an outline of something, especially a person's face, as seen from one side: the man turned and she caught his profile. 
• a vertical cross section of a structure: skillfully made vessels with an S-shaped profile. 
• Geography an outline of part of the earth's surface, e.g., the course of a river, as seen in a vertical section. 
• a flat piece of scenery or stage property that has been cut so as to form an outline or silhouette of an object.
2 a short article giving a description of a person or organization: a profile of a Texas tycoon. 
• (on a social media website or application) a user's summary of their personal details or current situation: he posted the pictures on his Facebook profile.
3 a graphical or other representation of information relating to particular characteristics of something, recorded in quantified form: the blood profiles of cancer patients. 
• a record of a person's psychological or behavioral characteristics, preferences, etc.: they had been using personal details to build customer profiles.
4 [in singular] the extent to which a person or organization attracts public notice: raising the profile of women in industry. 
▶verb [with object]
1 describe (a person or organization, especially a public figure) in a short article: he was to profile each candidate.
2 represent in outline from one side: he was standing motionless, profiled on the far side of the swimming pool. 
• (be profiled) have a specified shape or appearance in outline: a proud bird profiled like a phoenix. 
• shape (something), especially by means of a tool guided by a template: (as adjective profiled) : profiled and plain tiles. 
PHRASES
in profile (in reference to someone's face) as seen from one side: a photograph of Leon in profile.ORIGIN mid 17th century: from obsolete Italian profilo, from the verb profilare, from pro- ‘forth’ + filare ‘to spin,’ formerly ‘draw a line’ (from Latin filare, from filum ‘thread’).
