programme 
BrE ˈprəʊɡram
BrE 
A.  noun 
① (plan) 计划 jìhuà ; (schedule) 日程 rìchéng to introduce/launch/carry out a programme 引进/启动/施行计划 
② Music 曲目 qǔmù 
③ Theatre, Music (booklet) 节目单 jiémùdān 
④ Television, Radio (slot) 节目 jiémù a request programme 点播节目 a programme director/schedule 节目导演/时间表 
⑤ Radio, Television dated (channel) 频道 píndào 
B.  transitive verb 
① (set) 设定 shèdìng ‹system, microwave›the machine is programmed to shut down automatically after six hours 这台机器设定在6小时后自动关闭 I've got your number programmed into my mobile phone 我把你的号码设在了我的手机里 
② (schedule) 安排 ānpái ‹meeting, visit›
③ Biology (predetermine) 命定 mìngdìng 
program 
ˈprōˌɡram 
(British programme) 
▶noun
1 a planned series of future events, items, or performances: a weekly program of films 
the program includes Dvorak's New World symphony. 
• a set of related measures, events, or activities with a particular long-term aim: the nuclear power program.
2 a sheet or booklet giving details of items or performers at an event or performance: a theater program.
3 a presentation or item on radio or television, especially one broadcast regularly between stated times: a nature program. 
• dated a radio or television service or station providing a regular succession of programs on a particular frequency; a channel.
4 (program) a series of coded software instructions to control the operation of a computer or other machine. 
▶verb (programs, programming, programmed, or programing, programed) [with object]
1 (program) provide (a computer or other machine) with coded instructions for the automatic performance of a particular task: it is a simple matter to program the computer to recognize such symbols. 
• [no object] write computer programs: I've programmed for 25 years and have used many languages. 
• input (instructions for the automatic performance of a task) into a computer or other machine: simply program in your desired volume level. 
• cause (a person or animal) to behave in a predetermined way: all members of a particular species are programmed to build nests in the same way.
2 arrange according to a plan or schedule: we learn how to program our own lives consciously. 
• schedule (an item) within a framework: the next stage of the treaty is programmed for 1996. 
• US broadcast (an item): the station does not program enough contemporary works. 
PHRASES
get with the program [often in imperative] North American informal do what is expected of one; adopt the prevailing viewpoint.ORIGIN early 17th century (in the sense ‘written notice’): via late Latin from Greek programma, from prographein ‘write publicly,’ from pro ‘before’ + graphein ‘write.’
