progressive 
BrE prəˈɡrɛsɪv, AmE prəˈɡrɛsɪv 

A.  adjective 
① (gradual) 逐步的 zhúbù de ‹change, industrialization›a progressive illness 逐渐恶化的疾病 
② (radical) 进步的 jìnbù de ‹idea, policy, period›a progressive school/education 先进的学校/教育 
③ Linguistics (continuous) 进行的 jìnxíng de the present progressive tense 现在进行时 
B.  noun (advocate of social reform) 改革派 gǎigépài ; (person with forward-thinking ideas) 进步人士 jìnbù rénshì 
progressive 
prəˈɡresiv

▶adjective
1 happening or developing gradually or in stages; proceeding step by step: a progressive decline in popularity. 
• (of a disease or ailment) increasing in severity or extent: progressive liver failure. 
• (of taxation or a tax) increasing as a proportion of the sum taxed as that sum increases: steeply progressive income taxes. 
• (of a card game or dance) involving a series of sections for which participants successively change place or relative position. 
• archaic engaging in or constituting forward motion.
2 (of a group, person, or idea) favoring or implementing social reform or new, liberal ideas: a relatively progressive governor. 
• favoring or promoting change or innovation: a progressive art school. 
• relating to or denoting a style of rock music popular especially in the 1980s and characterized by classical influences, the use of keyboard instruments, and lengthy compositions.
3 Grammar denoting an aspect or tense of a verb that expresses an action in progress, e.g., am writing, was writing. Also called continuous. 
▶noun
1 a person advocating or implementing social reform or new, liberal ideas.
2 Grammar a progressive tense or aspect: the present progressive.
3 (also progressive proof) Printing each of a set of proofs of color work, showing all the colors separately and the cumulative effect of overprinting them. DERIVATIVES progressiveness 
prəˈɡresivnəs 
nounORIGIN early 17th century: from French progressif, -ive or medieval Latin progressivus, from progress- ‘gone forward,’ from the verb progredi (see progress) .
