project 
A.  /BrE ˈprɒdʒɛkt, AmE ˈprɑdʒˌɛkt
noun 
① (enterprise) 项目 xiàngmù (scheme) 方案 fāng'àn (task) 任务 rènwu a project manager/sponsor 项目经理/赞助者 a third world development project 一项第三世界发展规划 my next project is to make a bookcase 我的下一个工作是做一只书橱 
② School, University 研究课题 yánjiū kètí 
③ AmE (housing development) [政府出资兴建、租金较低的] 住宅区 zhùzháiqū 
B.  /BrE prəˈdʒɛkt, AmE prəˈdʒɛkt
transitive verb 
① (throw, send) 投掷 tóuzhì ‹object›; 发射 fāshè ‹missile›; 传送 chuánsòng ‹voice, sound, oneself, thoughts›
② Physics, Cinema 放映 fàngyìng ‹slide, film›; 投射 tóushè ‹image, light›
③ (put across) 展现 zhǎnxiàn ‹organization, view, oneself, image›she projects an aura of mystery 她显得神秘兮兮的 
④ (forecast) 预测 yùcè ‹growth, shortfall›
⑤ Psychology 投射 tóushè ‹guilt, fears, fantasy›to project [something] on to or upon [somebody]; 把某事物投射到某人身上 
C.  /BrE prəˈdʒɛkt, AmE prəˈdʒɛkt
intransitive verb (stick out) «beam, balcony» 伸出 shēnchū ; «land mass» 突出 tūchū ; «nose» 凸出 tūchū 
project 
▶noun 
ˈpräjˌekt 

1 an individual or collaborative enterprise that is carefully planned and designed to achieve a particular aim: a research project 
a nationwide project to encourage business development. 
• a school assignment undertaken by a student or group of students, typically as a long-term task that requires independent research: a history project. 
• a proposed or planned undertaking: the novel undermines its own stated project of telling a story.
2 (also housing project) North American a government-subsidized housing development with relatively low rents: her family still lives in the projects. 
▶verb 
prəˈjekt 
[with object]
1 estimate or forecast (something) on the basis of present trends: spending was projected at $72 million. 
• (often as adjective projected) plan (a scheme or undertaking): a projected exhibition of contemporary art.
2 [no object] extend outward beyond something else; protrude: I noticed a slip of paper projecting from the book 
(as adjective projecting) : a projecting bay window.
3 throw or cause to move forward or outward: seeds are projected from the tree. 
• cause (light, shadow, or an image) to fall on a surface: the one light projected shadows on the wall. 
• cause (a sound, especially the voice) to be heard at a distance: being audible depends on your ability to project your voice. 
• imagine (oneself, a situation, etc.) as having moved to a different place or time: people may be projecting the present into the past.
4 present or promote (a particular view or image): he strives to project an image of youth. 
• present (someone or something) in a way intended to create a favorable impression: she liked to project herself more as a friend than a doctor. 
• display (an emotion or quality) in one's behavior: everyone would be amazed that a young girl could project such depths of emotion. 
• (project something onto) transfer or attribute one's own emotion or desire to (another person), especially unconsciously: men may sometimes project their own fears onto women.
5 Geometry draw straight lines from a center of or parallel lines through every point of (a given figure) to produce a corresponding figure on a surface or a line by intersecting the surface. 
• produce (such a corresponding figure).
6 make a projection of (the earth, sky, etc.) on a plane surface. DERIVATIVES projectable 
prəˈjektəbəl 
adjectiveORIGIN late Middle English (in the sense ‘preliminary design, tabulated statement’): from Latin projectum ‘something prominent,’ neuter past participle of proicere ‘throw forth,’ from pro- ‘forth’ + jacere ‘to throw.’ Early senses of the verb were ‘plan, devise’ and ‘cause to move forward.’
