projection 
BrE prəˈdʒɛkʃ(ə)n, AmE prəˈdʒɛkʃ(ə)n 
noun 
① Countable(part sticking out) 凸出物 tūchūwù 
② UncountableCinema (presentation) 放映 fàngyìng ; Countable(image) 放映的影像 fàngyìng de yǐngxiàng 
③ Uncountable(of public image) 公众形象 gōngzhòng xíngxiàng 
④ Countable(forecast) 预测 yùcè 
⑤ Uncountable and countablePsychology (transfer) 投射 tóushè monsters can be understood as mental projections of mankind's fears 怪物可以理解为人类恐惧的心理表征 
⑥ Geography Uncountable(method) 投影法 tóuyǐngfǎ ; Countable(representation) 投影 tóuyǐng 
projection 
prəˈjekSH(ə)n

▶noun
1 an estimate or forecast of a future situation or trend based on a study of present ones: plans based on projections of slow but positive growth 
population projection is essential for planning.
2 the presentation of an image on a surface, especially a movie screen: quality illustrations for overhead projection. 
• an image projected on a surface: the background projections featured humpback whales. 
• the ability to make a sound, especially the voice, heard at a distance: I taught him voice projection.
3 the presentation or promotion of someone or something in a particular way: the legal profession's projection of an image of altruism. 
• a mental image viewed as reality: monsters can be understood as mental projections of mankind's fears. 
• the unconscious transfer of one's own desires or emotions to another person: we protect the self by a number of defense mechanisms, including repression and projection.
4 a thing that extends outward from something else: the particle board covered all the sharp projections.
5 Geometry the action of projecting a figure.
6 the representation on a plane surface of any part of the surface of the earth or a celestial sphere. 
• (also map projection) a method for representing part of the surface of the earth or a celestial sphere on a plane surface. DERIVATIVES projectionist 
prəˈjekSH(ə)nəst 
noun projection ( sense 2) ORIGIN mid 16th century ( sense 6): from Latin projectio(n-), from proicere ‘throw forth’ (see project) .
