proposition 
BrE prɒpəˈzɪʃ(ə)n, AmE ˌprɑpəˈzɪʃ(ə)n 

A.  noun 
① (assertion) 主张 zhǔzhāng 
② (plan, scheme) 计划 jìhuà (business proposal) 生意 shēngyi (suggestion) 提议 tíyì an attractive proposition 有吸引力的建议 to make [somebody] a proposition 向某人提出建议 an economic or a paying proposition 赚钱的生意 
③ (undertaking) 任务 rènwu running a marathon is a serious proposition 跑马拉松可不是闹着玩的 he's a tough or difficult proposition 他是个难对付的家伙 
④ Mathematics, Philosophy 命题 mìngtí 
B.  transitive verb 向…求欢 xiàng… qiúhuān 
proposition 
ˌpräpəˈziSH(ə)n

▶noun
1 a statement or assertion that expresses a judgment or opinion: the proposition that all men are created equal. 
• Logic a statement that expresses a concept that can be true or false. 
• Mathematics a formal statement of a theorem or problem, typically including the demonstration.
2 a suggested scheme or plan of action, especially in a business context: a detailed investment proposition. 
• US (in the US) a constitutional proposal; a bill. 
• informal an offer of sexual intercourse made to a person with whom one is not sexually involved, especially one that is made in an unsubtle or offensive way.
3 [with adjective] a project, task, or idea considered in terms of its likely success or difficulty, especially in a commercial context: a paper that has lost half its readers is unlikely to be an attractive proposition. 
• a person considered in terms of the likely success or difficulty of one's dealings with them: as a potential manager, Sandy is a better proposition than Dave. 
▶verb [with object] informal make a suggestion of sexual intercourse to (someone with whom one is not sexually involved), especially in an unsubtle or offensive way: she had been propositioned at the party by an accountant. 
• make an offer or suggestion to (someone): I was propositioned by the editor about becoming film critic of the paper. DERIVATIVES propositional 
ˌpräpəˈziSH(ə)nl 
adjective (chiefly Logic)ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French, from Latin propositio(n-), from the verb proponere (see propound). The verb dates from the 1920s.
