proper 
BrE ˈprɒpə, AmE ˈprɑpər 

A.  adjective 
① (appropriate) 合适的 héshì de ‹clothes, tool, person›; 适当的 shìdàng de ‹respect, choice, response›he lived in a manner proper to his rank 他以适合自己身份的方式生活 to do as one thinks proper 做自己认为合适的事情 at the proper time or moment 在适当的时候 it is only proper for [somebody] to do [something] 某人只能做某事 right and proper 天经地义的 
② attributive (correct) 正确的 zhèngquè de ‹time, order›the proper way to do [something] 做某事的正确方式 the proper sense or meaning of the word 这个词的正确意义 
③ (respectably correct) 得体的 détǐ de ‹behaviour›; 体面的 tǐmian de ‹person, life›to be proper in one's behaviour 举止得体 to do the proper thing (by [somebody]) （对某人）行为得当 
④ (adequate) 足够的 zúgòu de ‹education, facilities›lack of proper funding 资金的缺乏 
⑤ attributive especially BrE colloquial (real) 像样的 xiàngyàng de ‹job, holiday, food›; 真正意义上的 zhēnzhèng yìyì shang de ‹doctor›
⑥ (actual) 真正的 zhēnzhèng de (itself) 自身的 zìshēn de the competition proper 正式比赛 outside Shanghai proper 上海市区以外的 the town/meal proper 本城/正餐 
⑦ attributive colloquial (complete) 完全的 wánquán de ‹mess, disaster›; 十足的 shízú de ‹fool, idiot›a proper charlie! BrE 十足的呆瓜！ to give [somebody] a proper hiding 狠揍某人一顿 to make or do a proper job of [something] 把某事做彻底 
⑧ predicative (particular) 独具的 dújù de to be proper to [somebody]/[something]; «quality, type» 为某人/某事物所特有 
B.  adverb BrE colloquial or dialect 
① (correctly) 得体地 détǐ de ‹talk, behave, dress›; 清楚地 qīngchu de ‹see›
② (thoroughly) 彻底地 chèdǐ de the weather's proper cruel! 这鬼天气真让人受不了！ good and proper 彻底地 chèdǐ de 
proper 
ˈpräpər

▶adjective
1 [attributive] truly what something is said or regarded to be; genuine: she's never had a proper job 
a proper meal. 
• [postpositive] strictly so called; in its true form: some of the dos and don'ts in espionage proper. 
• informal, chiefly British used as an intensifier, often in derogatory contexts: she looked like a proper harlot.
2 [attributive] of the required type; suitable or appropriate: an artist needs the proper tools 
they had not followed the proper procedures. 
• according to or respecting recognized social standards or conventions; respectable, especially excessively so: her parents' view of what was proper for a well-bred girl 
a very prim and proper Swiss lady.
3 [predicative] (proper to) belonging or relating exclusively or distinctively to; particular to: the two elephant types proper to Africa and to southern Asia. 
• (of a psalm, lesson, prayer, etc.) appointed for a particular day, occasion, or season. 
• archaic belonging to oneself or itself; own: to judge with my proper eyes.
4 [usually postpositive] Heraldry in the natural colors.
5 archaic (of a person) good-looking: he is a proper youth!
6 Mathematics denoting a subset or subgroup that does not constitute the entire set or group, especially one that has more than one element. 
▶adverb British informal dialect satisfactorily or correctly: my eyes were all blurry and I couldn't see proper. 
• thoroughly: I had been fooled good and proper. 
▶noun the part of a church service that varies with the season or festival. DERIVATIVES properness nounORIGIN Middle English: from Old French propre, from Latin proprius ‘one's own, special.’
