proud 
BrE praʊd, AmE praʊd 
adjective 
① (satisfied) 自豪的 zìháo de ‹parent, owner, winner›to be proud of [somebody]/[something]; 为某人/某事物感到骄傲 I hope you're proud of yourself! ironic 这下你可光彩了！ as proud as a peacock 非常高傲 to do [somebody] proud BrE colloquial (give pride) 替某人增光 (treat well) 盛情款待某人 
② (self-respecting) 有自尊的 yǒu zìzūn de ‹nation, family›I'm not proud! 我没架子！ 
③ attributive (valued) 值得骄傲的 zhídé jiāo'ào de ‹possession›(splendid) 辉煌的 huīhuáng de ‹ship›a proud moment/day (for [somebody]) （某人）荣耀的时刻/日子 
④ pejorative (self-important) 傲慢的 àomàn de he's become too proud to be seen with his old friends 他变得非常自负，不愿被人看到和他的老朋友在一起 
⑤ predicative BrE (protruding) to be proud «nail, patch» 突出的 tūchū de to be or stand proud of [something]; 突出在某物外面 tūchū zài mǒu wù wàimian 
proud 
proud

▶adjective
1 feeling deep pleasure or satisfaction as a result of one's own achievements, qualities, or possessions or those of someone with whom one is closely associated: a proud grandma of three boys 
she got nine As and he was so proud of her. 
• (of an event, achievement, etc.) causing someone to feel this way: we have a proud history of innovation.
2 having or showing a high or excessively high opinion of oneself or one's importance: a proud, arrogant man. 
• having or showing a consciousness of one's own dignity: I was too proud to go home. 
• imposing; splendid: bulrushes emerge tall and proud from the middle of the pond.
3 [predicative] British slightly projecting from a surface: when the brake is engaged, the lever does not stand proud of the horizontal. 
PHRASES
do someone proud informal act in a way that gives someone cause to feel pleased or satisfied: they did themselves proud in a game that sent the fans home happy. 
• treat someone very well, typically by lavishly feeding or entertaining them.DERIVATIVES proudness 
ˈproudnəs 
nounORIGIN late Old English prūt, prūd ‘having a high opinion of one's own worth,’ from Old French prud ‘valiant,’ based on Latin prodesse ‘be of value.’ The phrase proud flesh dates back to late Middle English, but the sense ‘slightly projecting’ is first recorded in British dialect of the 19th century.
