provision 
BrE prəˈvɪʒ(ə)n, AmE prəˈvɪʒən 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(supplying) 供给 gōngjǐ the provision of [something]; 某物的供给 to be responsible for the provision of education/transport 有责任提供教育/交通服务 health care provision 医疗服务的提供 a provision merchant 供应商 
② Countable(amount supplied) 供应量 gōngyìngliàng an increased or greater provision 更大的供应量 
③ Uncountable and countable(arrangements) 准备 zhǔnbèi provision for [somebody]/[something]; 为某人/某事物所作的安排 provision against [something]; 对某事物的预防措施 provision had been made against flooding 已制订防洪措施 to make provision for [something] 为某事物作准备 provisions to ensure equal treatment 为保证待遇平等而采取的措施 
④ Countable and uncountableLaw, Administration (condition, stipulation) 规定 guīdìng under the provisions of … 按照…的规定 according to or within the provisions 根据条款 to exclude [somebody]/[something] from its provisions 将某人/某事物排除在其条款外 
B.  provisions noun plural (food and drink) 饮食供应 yǐnshí gōngyìng a stock of provisions 食品存储 to get (in) provisions 购买食品 
C.  transitive verb (supply) 为…提供必需品 wèi… tígōng bìxūpǐn ‹expedition, household›the ship had been provisioned for a long voyage 这艘船已装备了远航的必需品 to be well provisioned with food and fuel 储备好充足的食物和燃料 to be fully provisioned 储备充分 
provision 
prəˈviZHən

▶noun
1 the action of providing or supplying something for use: new contracts for the provision of services. 
• (provision for/against) financial or other arrangements for future eventualities or requirements: farmers have been slow to make provision for their retirement. 
• an amount set aside out of profits in the accounts of an organization for a known liability, especially a bad debt or the diminution in value of an asset.
2 an amount or thing supplied or provided: low levels of social provision. 
• (provisions) supplies of food, drink, or equipment, especially for a journey.
3 a condition or requirement in a legal document: a key provision in civil rights law 
an appraisal under the provisions of the National Housing Act.
4 Christian Church, historical an appointment to a benefice, especially directly by the Pope rather than by the patron, and originally before it became vacant. 
▶verb
1 [with object] supply with food, drink, or equipment, especially for a journey: civilian contractors were responsible for provisioning these armies.
2 [no object] set aside an amount in an organization's accounts for a known liability: financial institutions have to provision against loan losses. DERIVATIVES provisioner 
prəˈviZH(ə)nər 
nounORIGIN late Middle English (also in the sense ‘foresight’): via Old French from Latin provisio(n-), from providere ‘foresee, attend to’ (see provide). The verb dates from the early 19th century.
