public 
BrE ˈpʌblɪk, AmE ˈpəblɪk 

A.  adjective 
① (involving people in general) 公众的 gōngzhòng de in the public interest 为了公众利益 the public good 公益 to allay public disquiet 安民 public resistance/opposition (to [something]) 公众（对某事物）的反抗/反对 to receive public acclaim 受到公众欢迎 a token of public respect 公信力的标志 to be in public circulation 公开发行 it is public knowledge that … …是众所周知的 to be in the public eye 被广泛关注 to go into/be in public life 开始做/做出头露面的工作 to go public «business» 挂牌上市 
② (relating to the state) 政府的 zhèngfǔ de ‹funding›at public expense 以公款 
③ (for general use) 公用的 gōngyòng de ‹building›; 公共的 gōnggòng de ‹service›a sense of public duty 公共责任意识 public facility/education 公用设施/公共教育 
④ (prominent, known) 人人皆知的 rénrén jiē zhī de ; (done in public) 公开的 gōngkāi de a public figure/affair 公众人物/公开事件 [somebody's] public image 某人的公众形象 to make [something] public 公开某事物 a public speaker 演说家 a place of public execution 公开的刑场 to go public (with or about [something]) （将某事物）公诸于世 
⑤ (not private) 大庭广众的 dà tíng guǎng zhòng de ‹place, spot, room›let's go somewhere less public 我们去找个稍微僻静的地方 
B.  noun 
① (populace) 公众 gōngzhòng the (general) public 公众 gōngzhòng the Chinese public 中国民众 the great British public 大英子民 ［多有嘲讽意味］a member of the public 公众的一员 to be open/closed to the public 对/不对公众开放 
② (group sharing sth.) [有共同特点的] 群体 qúntǐ the author knows how to satisfy/please his public 这位作家懂得如何满足/取悦读者群 the theatre-going/sporting public 爱看戏的民众/体育运动族 
③ in public 公开地 gōngkāi de 
public 
ˈpəblik

▶adjective
1 of or concerning the people as a whole: public concern 
public affairs. 
• open to or shared by all the people of an area or country: a public library. 
• of or provided by the government rather than an independent, commercial company: public benefits. 
• of or involved in the affairs of the community, especially in government: his public career was destroyed by tenacious reporters. 
• known to many people; famous: a public figure.
2 done, perceived, or existing in open view: he wanted a public apology in the Wall Street Journal 
we should talk somewhere less public.
3 British of, for, or acting for a university: public examination results. 
▶noun (the public) [treated as singular or plural] ordinary people in general; the community: the library is open to the public 
the public has made an informed choice. 
• [with adjective or noun modifier] a section of the community having a particular interest or connection: the reading public. 
• (one's public) the people who watch or are interested in an artist, writer, or performer: some famous last words to give my public. 
PHRASES
go public
1 become a public company.
2 reveal details about a previously private concern: Bates went public with the news at a press conference. in public in view of other people; when others are present: men don't cry in public. the public eye the state of being known or of interest to people in general, especially through the media: the pressures of being constantly in the public eye.ORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French, from Latin publicus, blend of poplicus ‘of the people’ (from populus ‘people’) and pubes ‘adult.’
