purpose 
BrE ˈpəːpəs, AmE ˈpərpəs 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(aim) 目的 mùdì his purpose in life 他的生活目标 a story with a purpose 有说教寓意的故事 [somebody's] purpose in doing [something] 某人做某事的目的 with or for the purpose of doing [something] 为了做某事 on purpose 特意地 I came here on purpose to see you 我来这里就是要见你 
② Uncountable and countable(function, use) 用途 yòngtú the building is no longer used for its original purpose 这座建筑物不再用于原来计划的用途了 to serve a/no (useful) purpose 有用/无用 purpose unknown 用途不明 the car is large enough for the purpose 这辆车派此用场够大了 to good/some/little/no purpose 作用很大/有点作用/作用不大/徒劳 to be fit/unfit for purpose 能够/无法起作用 
③ Uncountable(determination) 决心 juéxīn to have a sense of purpose 果断 lack of purpose 优柔寡断 
B.  purposes noun plural 情势需要 qíngshì xūyào for the purposes of [something]; 出于对某事的考虑 for [somebody's] (own) purposes 对某人（自己）而言 to go to Shanghai for business purposes 去上海出差 for all practical purposes 实际上 earned income for tax purposes 应税的劳动收入 
purpose 
▶noun
1 the purpose of his visit: motive, motivation, grounds, cause, occasion, reason, point, basis, justification.
2 their purpose was to subvert the economy: intention, aim, object, objective, goal, end, plan, scheme, target; ambition, aspiration.
3 I cannot see any purpose in it: advantage, benefit, good, use, value, merit, worth, profit; informal mileage, percentage.
4 the original purpose of the porch: function, role, use.
5 they started the game with purpose: determination, resolution, resolve, steadfastness, backbone, drive, push, enthusiasm, ambition, motivation, commitment, conviction, dedication; informal get-up-and-go.
▶verb formal they purposed to reach the summit: intend, mean, aim, plan, design, have the intention; decide, resolve, determine, propose, aspire.
PHRASES
on purpose we'd like to believe that she didn't start the fire on purpose. See purposely. CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD See intend .These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
