qualify 
BrE ˈkwɒlɪfʌɪ, AmE ˈkwɑləˌfaɪ 

A.  transitive verb 
① (make fit for) 使具有资格 shǐ jùyǒu zīgé this test qualifies you to drive heavy vehicles 通过这一考试就有资格驾驶重型车辆 his experience qualifies him for the job 他的经验使他能胜任这份工作 
② (give right to) 使有权 shǐ yǒuquán paying a fee doesn't automatically qualify you for membership 交纳会费并不能使你自动成为会员 that doesn't qualify you to criticize me 那并不能使你有权批评我 
③ (add conditions to) 限定 xiàndìng she felt obliged to qualify her short answer 她只得对自己的简短回答作了一下修正 
④ Linguistics «adjective, adverb» 修饰 xiūshì ‹noun, verb›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (have the necessary credentials) 具备资格 jùbèi zīgé to qualify as a doctor 取得医师资格 he qualifies for the job 他胜任这份工作 
② (obtain official right) 有权 yǒuquán to qualify, you must have lived in this country for at least three years 你必须在这个国家至少住满三年才能享有此权利 if you live in the area, you qualify for a parking permit 在本地区居住者有权获得停车许可证 
③ Sport 获得参赛资格 huòdé cānsài zīgé our team has qualified for the final 我们队打进了决赛 
④ (have right qualities) 合格 hégé to qualify as [something]; 配得上某名称 he hardly qualifies as a poet 他算不上是个诗人 
qualify 
ˈkwäləˌfī

▶verb (qualifies, qualifying, qualified)
1 [no object] be entitled to a particular benefit or privilege by fulfilling a necessary condition: they do not qualify for compensation payments. 
• become eligible for a competition or its final rounds, by reaching a certain standard or defeating a competitor: he failed to qualify for the Olympic team 
(as adjective qualifying) : a World Cup qualifying game. 
• be or make properly entitled to be classed in a particular way: he qualifies as a genuine political refugee.
2 [no object] become officially recognized as a practitioner of a particular profession or activity by satisfying the relevant conditions or requirements, typically by undertaking a course of study and passing examinations: after the war he qualified as a lawyer 
I've only just qualified. 
• [with object] officially recognize or establish (someone) as a practitioner of a particular profession or activity: the courses qualify you as an instructor of the sport. 
• [with object and infinitive] make (someone) competent or knowledgeable enough to do something: I'm not qualified to write on the subject.
3 [with object] make (a statement or assertion) less absolute; add reservations to: she felt obliged to qualify her first short answer. 
• archaic make (something extreme or undesirable) less severe or extreme: his sincere piety and his large heart always qualify his errors. 
• archaic alter the strength or flavor of (something, especially a liquid): he qualified his mug of water with a plentiful infusion of the liquor. 
• (qualify something as) archaic attribute a specified quality to something; describe something as: the propositions have been qualified as heretical. 
• [with object] Grammar (of a word or phrase) attribute a quality to (another word, especially a preceding noun). DERIVATIVES qualifiable 
ˌkwäləˈfīəb(ə)l 
adjectiveORIGIN late Middle English (in the sense ‘describe in a particular way’): from French qualifier, from medieval Latin qualificare, from Latin qualis ‘of what kind, of such a kind’ (see quality).
