quarter 
BrE ˈk(w)ɔːtə, AmE ˈkwɔrdər 

A.  noun 
① Countable(one fourth) 四分之一 sì fēn zhī yī a quarter of a mile/pound 四分之一英里/磅 to divide the cake into four quarters 把蛋糕分成四等份 from all quarters of the globe figurative 来自全球各地 the box is only a quarter full 盒子只装了四分之一 the city is only a quarter the size of London 该市只有伦敦的四分之一大小 
② Countable(period of
15 minutes) 一刻钟 yī kèzhōng (a) quarter of an hour 一刻钟 yī kèzhōng an hour and a quarter 一小时多一刻钟 it's already (a) quarter to: we should get going 还差一刻钟：我们该走了 we are leaving at a quarter to especially BrE or of AmE seven 我们将在六点三刻动身 I'll meet you at a quarter past especially BrE or after AmE ten 我十点一刻和你见面 
③ Countable(period of three months) 3个月
3 gè yuè she's ten and a quarter 她10岁零3个月 productivity rose 1% in the first quarter of the year 第一季度的生产力提高了1% 
④ Countable(district of a town) 城区 chéngqū the poor quarter 贫民区 a residential quarter 住宅区 
⑤ Countable(person) [尤指可能提供帮助、信息或作出反应的] 个人 gèrén (group) 群体 qúntǐ news from the highest quarters 来自最高层的消息 the news was greeted with dismay in some or certain quarters 有一部分人对这条消息感到泄气 don't expect any help from that quarter! 别指望从那一方得到帮助！ 
⑥ Countable AmE, Canadian, Australian (25 cents) 25分
2
5 fēn it only cost me a quarter! 它只花了我两毛五分钱！ 
⑦ CountableAstronomy (of moon) 半圆的月相 bànyuán de yuèxiàng the moon is in its first/last quarter 月亮正处于上/下弦 
⑧ CountableSport (time period) 一节 yī jié 
⑨ Countable(four ounces) 夸特 kuātè [合4盎司]a quarter of cheese 一夸特干酪 
⑩ Countable(quarter hundredweight) 夸特 kuātè [在英国合28磅，在美国合25磅]
⑪ Uncountabledated or literary (mercy) 慈悲 cíbēi his rivals knew that they could expect no quarter from him 他的对手们知道他决不会手下留情 
⑫ Countable(direction) 方位 fāngwèi a wind from a northerly quarter 北风 
⑬ CountableNautical 船侧后部 chuáncè hòubù on the port/starboard quarter 在左舷/右舷船尾 
⑭ CountableCulinary (of carcass) 四分之一胴体 sì fēn zhī yī dòngtǐ a quarter of beef 带一条腿的大块牛肉 
⑮ CountableHeraldry 盾的四分之一 dùn de sì fēn zhī yī 
B.  quarters noun plural (accommodation) 住处 zhùchù (for military personnel) 营房 yíngfáng they took up quarters in the farmhouse 他们住进了农舍 married quarters 已婚军人宿舍 sleeping quarters 卧室 
C.  adjectiveattributive 四分之一的 sì fēn zhī yī de it's a quarter century old 它已有25年的历史 
D.  at close quarters adverb phrase 在近处 zài jìnchù to fight at close quarters 近距离作战 seen at close quarters, he's ugly 他近看很丑 
E.  transitive verb 
① (divide into four) 把…分为四部分 bǎ… fēnwéi sì bùfèn she peeled the apple and quartered it 她把苹果削了皮，切成四瓣 
② History (as punishment) 肢解 zhījiě to be hanged, drawn, and quartered 被绞死并开膛分尸 
③ (accommodate) 为…提供食宿 wèi… tígōng shísù the airmen are quartered on local villagers 飞行员住在当地村民家中 the soldiers were quartered in the town 士兵们在镇上宿营 
quarter 
ˈkwôrdər

▶noun
1 each of four equal or corresponding parts into which something is or can be divided: she cut each apple into quarters 
a page and a quarter 
a quarter of a mile. 
• a period of three months regarded as one fourth of a year, used especially in reference to financial transactions such as the payment of bills or a company's earnings: the payment for each quarter's electricity is made in the next quarter. 
• a period of fifteen minutes or a point of time marking the transition from one fifteen-minute period to the next: the baby was born at a quarter past nine. 
• a coin representing 25 cents, one fourth of a US or Canadian dollar. 
• each of the four parts into which an animal's or bird's carcass may be divided, each including a leg or wing. 
• (quarters) the haunches or hindquarters of a horse. 
• one fourth of a lunar month. 
• (in various sports) each of four equal periods into which a game is divided. 
• chiefly US one of four terms into which a school or college year may be divided.
2 one fourth of a measure of weight, in particular: 
• one fourth of a pound (avoirdupois, equal to
4 ounces). 
• one fourth of a hundredweight (US 25 lb or British 28 lb). 
• British a grain measure equivalent to
8 bushels.
3 [usually with adjective or noun] a part of a town or city having a specific character or use: it is a beautiful port city with a fascinating medieval quarter.
4 the direction of one of the points of the compass, especially as a direction from which the wind blows. 
• a particular but unspecified person, group of people, or area: we have just had help from an unexpected quarter. 
• either side of a ship aft of the beam: he trained his glasses over the starboard quarter.
5 (quarters) rooms or lodgings, especially those allocated to people in military or domestic service: the servants' quarters.
6 [usually with negative] pity or mercy shown toward an enemy or opponent who is in one's power: the riot squad gave no quarter.
7 Heraldry each of four or more roughly equal divisions of a shield separated by vertical and horizontal lines. 
• a square charge which covers the top left (dexter chief) quarter of the field. 
▶verb [with object]
1 divide into four equal or corresponding parts: peel and quarter the bananas. 
• historical cut (the body of an executed person) into four parts: the plotters were hanged, drawn, and quartered. 
• cut (a log) into quarters, and these into planks so as to show the grain well.
2 (be quartered) be stationed or lodged in a specified place: many were quartered in tents.
3 range over or traverse (an area) in every direction: we watched a pair of kingfishers quartering the river looking for minnows. 
• [no object] move at an angle; go in a diagonal or zigzag direction: his young dog quartered back and forth in quick turns.
4 Heraldry display (different coats of arms) in quarters of a shield, especially to show arms inherited from heiresses who have married into the bearer's family: Edward III quartered the French royal arms with his own. 
• divide (a shield) into four or more parts by vertical and horizontal lines. ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French quartier, from Latin quartarius ‘fourth part of a measure,’ from quartus ‘fourth,’ from quattuor ‘four.’
