question 
BrE ˈkwɛstʃ(ə)n, AmE ˈkwɛstʃ(ə)n 

A.  noun 
① Countable(request for information) 问题 wèntí to ask/answer a question 提出/回答问题 there's sure to be a question on energy in the exam 试卷上肯定有一道关于能量的题目 the question is, how much are they going to pay you? 问题是他们打算付给你多少钱？ the question arises as to whether or not he knew of the situation 问题是，他对局势是否了解 the key question of what caused the leak remains unanswered 泄漏是怎么造成的，这一关键问题仍没有答案 he put a question to the minister about the recent reforms 他就最近的改革向部长提了一个问题 (a) good question! 问得好！ an open question (to which there is no yes or no) 开放式问题 
② Countable(issue) [待讨论或处理的] 事情 shìqing the Palestinian question 巴勒斯坦问题 it's merely a question of time before the business collapses 这家企业的倒闭只是时间问题 there is no question of my taking the afternoon off work 我下午不可能不上班 an open question (undecided) 未决的问题 it's an open question as to whether or not he was guilty 他是否有罪尚无定论 in question 讨论中的 on the day in question we were in London 在所说的那一天，我们在伦敦 out of the question 不可能的 
③ Countable and uncountable(doubt) 疑问 yíwèn (uncertainty) 不确定 bù quèdìng there is no question about his honesty 他的诚实毋庸置疑 to call or bring or throw [something] into question (for doubt) 引起对某事物的怀疑 (for discussion) 引起对某事物的讨论 to come into question (for doubt) 被怀疑 (for discussion) 被讨论 to be open to question 不确定 bù quèdìng in question (in doubt) 有疑问的 (uncertain) 不确定的 the future of public transport is not in question 公共交通的未来发展是不容置疑的 beyond or without question 毫无疑问 to do [something] without question 毫无异议地做某事 he obeyed without question 他二话没说就服从了 
B.  transitive verb 
① (ask, interrogate) 问 wèn over half of those questioned said they rarely took any exercise 被问到的人有一半以上都说他们很少锻炼身体 she was arrested and questioned about the fire 她被拘留讯问有关火灾的事情 the witness was questioned about his drinking habits 证人被问到他的喝酒习惯 
② (be doubtful of) 怀疑 huáiyí to question [somebody's] judgement 对某人的判断表示怀疑 I question whether he really paid that money into her account 我怀疑他是否真的把钱划入她的账户了 
question 
▶noun
1 please answer my question: inquiry, query; interrogation. ANTONYMS answer, response.
2 there is no question that he is ill: doubt, dispute, argument, debate, uncertainty, dubiousness, reservation. ANTONYMS certainty.
3 the political questions of the day: issue, matter, business, problem, concern, topic, theme, case; debate, argument, dispute, controversy.
▶verb
1 the lieutenant questions the suspect: interrogate, cross-examine, cross-question, quiz, catechize; interview, debrief, examine, give the third degree to; informal grill, pump.
2 she questioned his motives: query, call into question, challenge, dispute, cast aspersions on, doubt, suspect, have suspicions about, have reservations about.
PHRASES
beyond question
1 her loyalty is beyond question: undoubted, beyond doubt, certain, indubitable, indisputable, incontrovertible, unquestionable, undeniable, clear, patent, manifest.
2 the results demonstrated this beyond question: indisputably, irrefutably, incontestably, incontrovertibly, unquestionably, undeniably, undoubtedly, beyond doubt, without doubt, clearly, patently, obviously. in question the matter in question: at issue, under discussion, under consideration, on the agenda, to be decided. out of the question changing the date of the wedding is out of the question: impossible, impracticable, unfeasible, unworkable, inconceivable, unimaginable, unrealizable, unsuitable. 
WORD LINKS
question interrogative expressing a questionWord Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.
