quick 
BrE kwɪk, AmE kwɪk 

A.  adjective 
① (speedy) 快的 kuài de be quick about it! 快点儿！ a quick worker 手脚快的人 she's a quick worker: she only met him last week, and now they are engaged! 她的动作可真快：上周才遇见他，现在两人已经订婚了！ she gave him a quick look 她匆匆扫了他一眼 to make a quick decision 当机立断 he fired three shots in quick succession 他瞬间连发3枪 the company is just out to make a quick profit 这家公司只图赚快钱 
② (without delay) 立即的 lìjí de he was always quick to point out her mistakes 他总是立即指出她的错误 to be quick to anger 动辄发怒 to have a quick temper 脾气暴躁 
③ (intelligent) 聪敏的 cōngmǐn de quick wits 急智 he's a quick learner or AmE colloquial study 他学东西很快 it was quick of him to spot the mistake 他敏锐地发现了这个错误 
B.  adverb 快 kuài come quick! 快来！ to get rich quick 迅速致富 quick march! Military 齐步走！ quick as a flash or as lightning 飞快地 
C.  noun the quick ［指甲下的] 活肉 huóròu to bite one's nails (down) to the quick 咬指甲直到肉根 yǎo zhǐjia zhídào ròu gēn to cut or sting [somebody] to the quick 深深伤害某人 shēnshēn shānghài mǒu rén 
D.  noun plural archaic or literary the quick and the dead 生者与死者 shēngzhě yǔ sǐzhě 
quick 
kwik

▶adjective
1 moving fast or doing something in a short time: some children are particularly quick learners 
I was much quicker than he was and held him at bay for several laps 
[with infinitive] : he was always quick to point out her faults. 
• lasting or taking a short time: she took a quick look through the drawers 
we went to the pub for a quick drink. 
• happening with little or no delay: prompt: children like to see quick results from their efforts.
2 (of a person) prompt to understand, think, or learn; intelligent: it was quick of him to spot the mistake. 
• (of a person's eye or ear) keenly perceptive; alert. 
• (of a person's temper) easily roused. 
▶adverb informal at a fast rate; quickly: he'll find some place where he can make money quicker 
[as exclamation] : Get out, quick! 
▶noun
1 (the quick) the soft, tender flesh below the growing part of a fingernail or toenail. 
• the central or most sensitive part of someone or something.
2 (as plural noun the quick) archaic those who are living: the quick and the dead. 
PHRASES
cut someone to the quick cause someone deep distress by a hurtful remark or action. (as) quick as a flash see flash1. quick on the draw see draw. quick with child archaic at a stage of pregnancy when movements of the fetus have been felt.ORIGIN Old English cwic, cwicu ‘alive, animated, alert,’ of Germanic origin; related to Dutch kwiek ‘sprightly’ and German keck ‘saucy,’ from an Indo-European root shared by Latin vivus ‘alive’ and Greek bios, zōē ‘life.’
