quiet 
BrE ˈkwʌɪət, AmE ˈkwaɪət 

A.  adjective 
① (noiseless) 安静的 ānjìng de (not noisy) 轻声的 qīngshēng de (not speaking) 沉默的 chénmò de could you keep the kids quiet while I'm on the phone? 我打电话时你让孩子们安静点好吗？ to speak in a quiet voice 轻声说话 her new car is very quiet 她的新车噪音很小 to keep or stay quiet 保持沉默 quiet please! 请安静！ 
② (tranquil, slow) 寂静的 jìjìng de ‹village, street›; 平静的 píngjìng de ‹life, sea›business is very quiet 生意很清淡 
③ (sparsely attended) 不事张扬的 bù shì zhāngyáng de ‹dinner, wedding, funeral›
④ (undisturbed) 宁静的 níngjìng de a quiet evening 宁静的夜晚 to have a quiet drink 悠闲地喝一杯 
⑤ (subdued) 文静的 wénjìng de he was always very quiet at school 他在学校总是寡言少语 a quiet pony 温顺的矮马 
⑥ (not expressed or done openly) 暗中的 ànzhōng de (discreet) 不显眼的 bù xiǎnyǎn de he has an air of quiet authority 他的神态威严凝重 to have a quiet laugh over [something] 对某事暗自窃笑 with a quiet smile (restrained) 带着淡然的微笑 (knowing) 带着会意的微笑 to have a quiet word (with [somebody]) (about [something]) （与某人）（就某事物）进行私下交谈 
⑦ (secret) 秘密的 mìmì de to keep [something] quiet, to keep quiet about [something] 将某事保密 I've decided to resign, but I'd rather you kept quiet about it 我已决定辞职，但希望你不要声张出去 
⑧ (unobtrusive) 素净的 sùjing de ‹colour, garment›
B.  nounUncountable
① (silence) 安静 ānjìng the quiet of the early morning 清晨的寂静 
② (freedom from disturbance) 宁静 níngjìng I went to the library for a little peace and quiet 我去图书馆清静了一下 
③ (peaceful state of affairs) 安定 āndìng a time of quiet 和平时期 
④ colloquial to do [something] on the quiet (in secret) 秘密做某事 mìmì zuò mǒu shì to have a drink on the quiet 偷偷喝酒 tōutōu hē jiǔ 
C.  transitive verb especially AmE = quieten PHRASAL VERB quiet down intransitive verb, transitive verb especially AmE = quieten down 
quiet 
ˈkwīət

▶adjective (quieter, quietest)
1 making little or no noise: the car has a quiet, economical engine 
I was as quiet as I could be, but he knew I was there. 
• (of a place, period of time, or situation) without much activity, disturbance, or excitement: the street below was quiet, little traffic braving the snow. 
• without being disturbed or interrupted: all he wanted was a quiet drink.
2 carried out discreetly, secretly, or with moderation: we wanted a quiet wedding 
I'll have a quiet word with him. 
• (of a person) tranquil and reserved by nature; not brash or forceful: his quiet, middle-aged parents. 
• [attributive] expressed in a restrained or understated way: Molly spoke with quiet confidence. 
• (of a color or garment) unobtrusive; not bright or showy. 
▶noun absence of noise or bustle; silence; calm: the ringing of the telephone shattered the early morning quiet. 
• freedom from disturbance or interruption by others: he understood her wish for peace and quiet. 
• a peaceful or settled state of affairs in social or political life: after several months of comparative quiet, the scandal reerupted in August. 
▶verb chiefly North American make or become silent, calm, or still: [with object] : there are ways of quieting kids down 
[no object] : the journalists quieted down as Judy stepped onto the dais. 
PHRASES
do anything for a quiet life see life. keep quiet (or keep someone quiet) refrain or prevent someone from speaking or from disclosing something secret.keep something quiet (or keep quiet about something) refrain from disclosing information about something; keep something secret.on the quiet informal without anyone knowing or noticing; secretly or unobtrusively. (as) quiet as the grave see grave1. (as) quiet as a mouse (of a person or animal) extremely quiet or docile.ORIGIN Middle English (originally as a noun denoting peace as opposed to war): via Old French, based on Latin quies, quiet- ‘repose, quiet.’
