quite 
BrE kwʌɪt, AmE kwaɪt 
adverb 
① BrE (rather) 比较 bǐjiào it's quite cold/warm today 今天比较冷/暖和 quite a lot of money/opposition 比较多的钱/反对意见 I quite like Chinese food 我比较喜欢中餐 
② BrE (considerably) 相当 xiāngdāng quite a few/lot of people/things 相当多的人/东西 I've thought about it quite a bit 这件事情我已经考虑了很多 it's quite a lot colder/warmer today 今天冷/暖和得多 quite some time 相当长的时间 they won quite easily 他们赢得相当轻松 
③ BrE (completely) 完全 wánquán are you quite sure? 你有十足把握吗？ you're quite right/wrong 你完全正确/错了 it's/that's quite all right (in reply to apology) 真的没关系 I quite agree/understand 我十分赞同/理解 have you quite finished? ironic 你全部完成了？ quite frankly 很坦率地说 (and) quite right too! 的确是这样！ that's quite enough! 那完全够了！ not quite as interesting/expensive 不那么有趣/贵 there were not quite as many as last time 并非像上一次那么多 that's not quite all (giving account of sth.) 那可不是全部 
④ (very) 很 hěn to be quite comfortable/happy 很舒服/高兴 he's quite clearly mad 很显然他是疯了 our whisky is quite simply the best! 我们的威士忌当然是最好的！ it's quite likely that … …很有可能 
⑤ BrE (definitely) 毫无疑问 háo wú yíwèn it was quite the best answer 这无疑是最佳答案 
⑥ (as intensifier) 的确 díquè that will be quite a change for you 那对你来说的确会是一个大改变 she's quite a beauty 她是个大美人 that was quite some party! 那个晚会真棒！ their house is really quite something colloquial 他们的房子可真是不同凡响 it was quite a sight 这可真够壮观的 
⑦ BrE (expressing agreement) 一点不错 yīdiǎn bùcuò he could have told us — quite! 他原本可以告诉我们的──没错！ it's just common sense — quite so! formal 这只是常识而已──一点不错！ 
quite 
kwīt

▶adverb [usually as submodifier]
1 to the utmost or most absolute extent or degree; absolutely; completely: it's quite out of the question 
are you quite certain about this? 
this is quite a different problem 
I quite agree 
quite frankly, I don't blame you. 
• US very; really (used as an intensifier): “You've no intention of coming back?” “I'm quite sorry, but no, I have not.”
2 to a certain or fairly significant extent or degree; fairly: it's quite warm outside 
I was quite embarrassed, actually 
she did quite well at school 
he's quite an attractive man. 
▶exclam. (also quite so) British expressing agreement with or understanding of a remark or statement: “I don't want to talk about that now.” “Quite.” 
PHRASES
not quite not completely or entirely: my hair's not quite dry 
she hasn't quite got the hang of it yet. quite a —— (also often ironic quite the ——) used to indicate that the specified person or thing is perceived as particularly notable, remarkable, or impressive: quite a party, isn't it? 
it's been quite a year 
quite the little horsewoman, aren't you?quite a few see few. quite a lot (or a bit) a considerable number or amount of something: my job involves quite a lot of travel 
he's quite a bit older than she is.quite some
1 a considerable amount of: she hasn't been seen for quite some time.
2 informal way of saying quite a —— . quite something see something. quite the thing dated socially acceptable: she was quite the thing in heels and stockings and lipstick.ORIGIN Middle English: from the obsolete adjective quite, variant of quit1 .
