quote 
BrE kwəʊt, AmE kwoʊt 

A.  transitive verb 
① (cite) 引用 yǐnyòng he quoted a passage from the minister's speech 他引用了部长的一段讲话 to quote Shakespeare 引用莎士比亚的话 don't quote me (on this), but she's pregnant 别说（这话）是我说的──她怀孕了 to quote [somebody] as saying that … 引用某人的话说… 
② (mention) 援引 yuányǐn ‹reference, fact, law›please quote this number in all correspondence 请在所有函件中标明这个编号 to quote [somebody]/[something] as an example 引某人/某事物为例 can you quote me an instance of this happening? 你能否给我举例说明这种事件？ 
③ Busn (give) 报 bào ‹figure, price›they quoted us £600 for repairing or to repair the car 修这辆车他们向我们开价600英镑 
④ Finance (state price of) 报…的价 bào… de jià yesterday the pound was quoted at $1.8285 昨天英镑的报价为1.8285美元 
⑤ Finance (list on stock exchange) 给…挂牌 gěi… guàpái several football clubs are now quoted on the Stock Exchange 已有好几家足球俱乐部在证券交易所挂牌上市 
⑥ (in betting) 报出…的投注赔率 bàochū… de tóuzhù péilǜ they are quoted (at or as) 6-1 它们的投注赔率为6赔1 to quote odds of 3-1 开出3赔1的赔率 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (recite from text) 引用 yǐnyòng he often quotes from the Bible 他经常引用《圣经》中的语句 quote (… unquote) (in dictation) 引号起（…引号止） colloquial (in speaking) 原话起（…原话止） yuánhuà qǐ(… yuánhuà zhǐ) it was quote ‘the hardest decision of my life’unquote 那是，引文开始，“我一生中最难作出的决定”，引文结束 
② Busn (give price) 报价 bàojià to quote for [something]; 为某物报价 
C.  noun 
① (from speech, book) 引文 yǐnwén a quote from the Bible 引自《圣经》的语句 
② (short statement to journalist) 声明 shēngmíng 
③ Busn (estimate) 报价 bàojià their quote for the job was too high 他们对那单活儿开价太高 
④ Finance (for sale or purchase of stock) 牌价 páijià 
D.  quotes noun plural = quotation marks
quote 
kwōt

▶verb [with object]
1 repeat or copy out (a group of words from a text or speech), typically with an indication that one is not the original author or speaker: he quoted a passage from the Psalms 
[with direct speech] : “The stream mysterious glides beneath,” Melinda quoted 
[no object] : when we told her this she said, and I quote, “Phooey!” 
• repeat a passage from (a work or author) or statement by (someone): the prime minister was quoted as saying that he would resist all attempts to “sabotage” his government 
he quoted Shakespeare, Goethe, and other poets. 
• mention or refer to (someone or something) to provide evidence or authority for a statement, argument, or opinion: they won't be here at all in three years time—you can quote me on that. 
• (quote someone/something as) put forward or describe someone or something as being: heavy teaching loads are often quoted as a bad influence on research.
2 give someone (the estimated price of a job or service): [with two objects] : the agent quoted a fare of $180. 
• Stock Market give (a company) a quotation or listing on a stock exchange: an organization that is quoted on the Stock Exchange. 
▶noun
1 a quotation from a text or speech: a quote from Wordsworth.
2 a quotation giving the estimated cost for a particular job or service: quotes from different insurance companies. 
• Stock Market a price offered by a broker for the sale or purchase of a stock or other security. 
• Stock Market a quotation or listing of a company on a stock exchange.
3 (quotes) quotation marks: use double quotes around precise phrases you wish to search for. 
PHRASES
quote —— unquote (also quote, unquote) informal used parenthetically when speaking to suggest quotation marks, to indicate the beginning and end of a statement or passage that one is reciting or repeating: the brochure describes the view as, quote, unquote, unforgettably breathtaking 
the second sentence says, quote, There has never been a better time to invest in the commodities market, unquote.ORIGIN late Middle English: from medieval Latin quotare, from quot ‘how many,’ or from medieval Latin quota (see quota). The original sense was ‘mark a book with numbers, or with marginal references,’ later ‘give a reference by page or chapter,’ hence ‘cite a text or person’ (late 16th century).
