radical 
BrE ˈradɪk(ə)l, AmE ˈrædək(ə)l 

A.  adjective 
① Politics 激进的 jījìn de ‹campaigner, movement, bookshop›
② (fundamental) 根本的 gēnběn de ‹fault, difference›; 基本的 jīběn de ‹thought›
③ (thorough) 彻底的 chèdǐ de ‹reform, re-examination›the need for radical changes in the law 彻底改革法律的需要 
④ Medicine 根治的 gēnzhì de ‹treatment›he will undergo radical plastic surgery 他要做一次彻底的整形手术 
B.  noun 
① Politics 激进分子 jījìn fènzǐ 
② Chemistry 基 jī free radicals 自由基 
③ Linguistics 偏旁 piānpáng 
radical 
ˈradək(ə)l

▶adjective
1 (especially of change or action) relating to or affecting the fundamental nature of something; far-reaching or thorough: a radical overhaul of the existing regulatory framework. 
• forming an inherent or fundamental part of the nature of someone or something: the assumption of radical differences between the mental attributes of literate and nonliterate peoples. 
• (of surgery or medical treatment) thorough and intended to be completely curative. 
• characterized by departure from tradition; innovative or progressive: a radical approach to electoral reform.
2 advocating or based on thorough or complete political or social change; representing or supporting an extreme or progressive section of a political party: a radical American activist.
3 relating to the root of something, in particular: 
• Mathematics of the root of a number or quantity. 
• denoting or relating to the roots of a word. 
• Music belonging to the root of a chord. 
• Botany of, or springing direct from, the root or stem base of a plant.
4 [usually as exclamation] North American informal very good; excellent: Okay, then. Seven o'clock. Radical! 
▶noun
1 a person who advocates thorough or complete political or social reform; a member of a political party or part of a party pursuing such aims.
2 Chemistry a group of atoms behaving as a unit in a number of compounds. See also free radical.
3 the root or base form of a word. 
• any of the basic set of 214 Chinese characters constituting semantically or functionally significant elements in the composition of other characters and used as a means of classifying characters in dictionaries.
4 Mathematics a quantity forming or expressed as the root of another. 
• a radical sign. DERIVATIVES radicalness nounORIGIN late Middle English (in the senses ‘forming the root’ and ‘inherent’): from late Latin radicalis, from Latin radix, radic- ‘root.’
