rail
1 
BrE reɪl, AmE reɪl 

A.  noun 
① Countable(handrail) 栏杆 lángān (on ship) 舷栏 xiánlán 
② Countable(bar for hanging things on) 横杆 hénggān a curtain rail 窗帘杆 
③ Countable(track) 铁轨 tiěguǐ tram rails 电车轨道 to come or go off the rails literal 出轨 to go off the rails figurative «person» 举止怪异 «project» 无法正常运行 wúfǎ zhèngcháng yùnxíng he seems to have gone off the rails a bit 他似乎变得有点疯疯癫癫 our plans have rather gone off the rails 我们的计划乱了套 
④ Uncountable(as means of travel) 铁路 tiělù by rail 乘火车 ‹travel› 由铁路 yóu tiělù ‹send›to go by rail 乘火车去 rail transport/journey/network/worker 铁路运输/旅行/网/工人 a rail ticket 火车票 
B.  rails noun plural Horse racing 赛马场围栏 sàimǎchǎng wéilán PHRASAL VERBS rail in transitive verb[rail something in], [rail in something] 用栏杆围住 yòng lángān wéizhù ‹animal, area›the sheep were railed in 羊被圈在栅栏里 rail off transitive verb[rail something off], [rail off something] 用栏杆隔开 yòng lángān gékāi ‹area›they had railed off a section of the field for use as a car park 他们围出一块地用作停车场 
rail
1 
rāl

▶noun
1 a bar or series of bars, typically fixed on upright supports, serving as part of a fence or barrier or used to hang things on. 
• (the rails) the inside boundary fence of a racecourse. 
• the edge of a surfboard or sailboard.
2 a steel bar or continuous line of bars laid on the ground as one of a pair forming a railroad track: trolley rails. 
• [often as modifier] railroads as a means of transportation: rail fares 
traveling by rail.
3 a horizontal piece in the frame of a paneled door or sash window. Compare with stile2.
4 Electronics a conductor that is maintained at a fixed potential and to which other parts of a circuit are connected. 
▶verb
1 [with object] provide or enclose (a space or place) with a rail or rails: the altar is railed off from the nave.
2 [no object] (in windsurfing) sail the board on its edge, so that it is at a sharp angle to the surface of the water. 
PHRASES
go off the rails informal begin behaving in a strange, abnormal, or wildly uncontrolled way.DERIVATIVES railless adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: from Old French reille ‘iron rod,’ from Latin regula ‘straight stick, rule.’
