rather 
BrE ˈrɑːðə, AmE ˈræðər 

A.  adverb 
① (to some degree) 有点儿 yǒudiǎnr a rather hot day,rather a hot day 有点儿热的一天 they won rather easily 他们赢得挺轻松 he's rather a fool 他有点傻乎乎的 it rather surprised her 这令她颇为吃惊 
② (excessively) 相当 xiāngdāng it's rather expensive 这东西贵了点儿 he's rather young to marry 他年纪太小，还不能结婚 
③ (expressing preference) 宁愿 nìngyuàn would you rather she left? 你愿意她离开吗？ [somebody] would rather do [something] (than do [something]); 某人宁愿做某事（而不做某事） would you rather walk or take the bus? 你愿意步行还是坐公交车？ she'd rather die than give a speech 她宁死都不肯发言 I'm going climbing tomorrow — rather you than me! colloquial 我明天去爬山──换了我才不去呢！ 
④ (instead of) rather than 而不是 ér bùshi you should go rather than me 是你该走，而不是我 I think I'll have a cold drink rather than coffee 我想要一杯冷饮，不要咖啡 he'd die rather than admit it 他死也不承认这件事 
⑤ (making a correction) 更确切地说 gèng quèqiè de shuō a tree, or rather a bush 一棵树，更确切地说，一株灌木 last night or rather early this morning 昨天夜里，准确地说是今天凌晨 
⑥ (on the contrary) 相反 xiāngfǎn it didn't improve, but rather deteriorated 情况没有好转，反而恶化了 the walls were not white, rather a sort of dirty grey 墙不是白色的，是灰不溜秋的 
B.  exclamation BrE dated 当然 dāngrán you are glad to be home, aren't you? — rather! 你很高兴回到家，是吧？──当然！ isn't it lovely! — rather! 多么可爱啊！──确实如此！ 
rather 
ˈraT͟Hər

▶adverb
1 (would rather) used to indicate one's preference in a particular matter: would you like some wine, or would you rather stick to sherry? 
she'd rather die than cause a scene 
[with clause] : I'd rather you not tell him 
“You'd better ask her.” “I'd rather not.”
2 [as submodifier] to a certain or significant extent or degree: she's been behaving rather strangely 
he's rather an unpleasant man. 
• used before verbs as a way of making the expression of a feeling or opinion less assertive: I rather think he wants me to marry him 
we were rather hoping you might do that for us.
3 used to precede an idea that is different or opposite to a previous statement: [sentence adverb] : There is no shortage of basic skills in the workplace. Rather, the problem is poor management. 
• more precisely (used to modify or clarify something previously stated): I walked, or rather limped, the two miles home. 
• instead of; as opposed to: she seemed indifferent rather than angry. 
▶exclam. dated, chiefly British used to express emphatic affirmation, agreement, or acceptance: “You are glad to be home, aren't you?” “Rather!” 
PHRASES
had rather would rather: I had rather not see him. rather you (or him or her, etc.) than me used to convey that one would be reluctant oneself to undertake a particular task or project undertaken by someone else: “I'm picking him up after lunch.” “Rather you than me.”ORIGIN Old English hrathor ‘earlier, sooner,’ comparative of hræthe ‘without delay,’ from hræth ‘prompt’ (see rathe) .
