raw 
BrE rɔː, AmE rɔ 

A.  adjective 
① (uncooked) 生的 shēng de ‹fruit, meat›to eat [something] raw 生吃某物 
② (unprocessed) 未经处理的 wèijīng chǔlǐ de ‹sewage›raw cotton/wood/sugar 原棉/原木/原糖 raw silk/rubber 生丝/生橡胶 drinking raw alcohol would kill you 喝纯酒精会致命 
③ (not evaluated) 未经分析的 wèijīng fēnxī de ‹facts›I'm still gathering raw data 我还在搜集原始数据 
④ (without skin, sore) 擦破皮的 cāpò pí de ‹back, hand, blister› → nerve 
A. 
① 
⑤ (cold, damp) 阴冷的 yīnlěng de ‹day›
⑥ (inexperienced) 无经验的 wújīngyàn de ‹reporter, kid›why did you give the job to a raw recruit? 你为什么把工作交给一个新兵？ 
⑦ (realistic) 真实的 zhēnshí de ‹portrayal›
⑧ (undisguised) 不加掩饰的 bùjiā yǎnshì de ‹emotion, quality›
⑨ (unpolished) 粗犷的 cūguǎng de ‹style, characterization›raw but authentic artistic power 原始但真实的艺术力量 
⑩ colloquial (unfair) 不公正的 bù gōngzhèng de a raw deal 不公的待遇 to get or have a raw deal 受到不公正待遇 to give [somebody] a raw deal 对某人苛刻 
B.  noun to catch or touch [somebody] on the raw BrE 触及某人痛处 in the raw (as sth. really is) 自然状态下的 colloquial (naked) 赤身裸体的 chìshēn luǒtǐ de he writes about life in the raw 他描写真实的生活 I slept in the raw 我裸睡 
raw 
rô

▶adjective
1 (of food) uncooked: raw eggs 
salsify can be eaten raw in salads or cooked. 
• (of a material or substance) in its natural state; not yet processed or purified: raw silk 
raw sewage. 
• (of information) not analyzed, evaluated, or processed for use: there were a number of errors in the raw data. 
• (of the edge of a piece of cloth) not having a hem or selvage. 
• (of a person) new to an activity or job and therefore lacking experience or skill: they were replaced by raw recruits.
2 (of a part of the body) red and painful, especially as the result of skin abrasion: he scrubbed his hands until they were raw 
figurative : Fran's nerves were raw.
3 (of the weather) bleak, cold, and damp: a raw February night.
4 (of an emotion or quality) strong and undisguised: he exuded an air of raw, vibrant masculinity. 
• frank and realistic in the depiction of unpleasant facts or situations: a raw, uncompromising portrait. 
• US informal (of language) coarse or crude, typically in relation to sexual matters. 
PHRASES
in the raw
1 in its true state; not made to seem better or more palatable than it actually is: he didn't much care for nature in the raw.
2 informal (of a person) naked: I slept in the raw. a raw (or rough) deal informal a situation in which someone receives unfair or harsh treatment.DERIVATIVES rawly adverb. rawness 
ˈrônəs 
nounORIGIN Old English hrēaw, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch rauw and German roh, from an Indo-European root shared by Greek kreas ‘raw flesh.’
