real 
BrE riːl, AmE ˈri(ə)l 

A.  adjective 
① usually attributive (actual) 实际存在的 shíjì cúnzài de there's no real cause for alarm 实在没有理由惊慌 there’s no real possibility of … …是绝不可能的 the threat is very real 这种威胁是实实在在的 we have a real chance of success 我们确实有可能成功 he has no real power 他没有实权 to have no real understanding of [something] 根本不理解某事物 in real life 在现实生活中 you need to keep in touch with the real world 你不能与现实世界脱节 get real ! colloquial 现实点吧！ 
② usually attributive (not artificial or imitation) 真的 zhēn de ‹diamond, champagne, flower›real leather/silk 真皮/真丝 the real thing 真正的东西 as soon as I met her I knew that I'd found the real thing at last 我一遇到她就知道我终于找到了真爱 this time it's the real thing 这回是动了真情 the real McCoy colloquial 货真价实的东西 
③ attributive (true) 真实的 zhēnshí de ‹reason, story, self›the real truth 实情 the real France/you 真实的法国/你 a real live celebrity 活生生的名人 
④ attributive (proper) 名副其实的 míng fù qí shí de ‹Buddhist, communist, altruism›; 真正的 zhēnzhèng de ‹regret›a real man/accident/problem 真正的男子汉/事故/问题 to have a real holiday 好好度个假 his first real kiss 他真正的初吻 
⑤ attributive (for emphasis) 十足的 shízú de ‹idiot›it's a real shame you can't come 你不能来真是可惜 it's been a real pleasure to meet you 很高兴见到你 a real laugh colloquial 真好笑 a real stroke of luck/misfortune 十足的好运/不幸 this room is a real oven 屋里热得像火炉 he was making a real effort to be nice to her 他费尽心思地对她好 
⑥ attributive Busn, Finance 实际的 shíjì de ‹capital, cost, value, income›real assets 不动产 
⑦ Mathematics 实（数）的 shí(shù) de real analysis 实分析 
⑧ Philosophy 实在的 shízài de real entities/phenomena 实体/实相 
B.  for real adjective phrasecolloquial 
① (genuine) 真实的 zhēnshí de I wonder if he is for real 我不知道他是不是冒牌货 those tears weren't for real 那些眼泪不是真心的 
② especially AmE (serious) 认真的 rènzhēn de are those guys for real? 那些家伙当真吗？ 
C.  adverb AmE colloquial 很 hěn I'm real sorry 我很抱歉 that tastes real good 那东西的味道很不错 
D.  noun the real 现实 xiànshí 
real
1 
ˈrē(ə)l

▶adjective
1 actually existing as a thing or occurring in fact; not imagined or supposed: Julius Caesar was a real person 
a story drawing on real events 
her many illnesses, real and imaginary. 
• used to emphasize the significance or seriousness of a situation or circumstance: there is a real danger of civil war 
the competitive threat from overseas is very real. 
• Philosophy relating to something as it is, not merely as it may be described or distinguished.
2 (of a substance or thing) not imitation or artificial; genuine: the earring was presumably real gold. 
• true or actual: his real name is James 
this isn't my real reason for coming. 
• [attributive] (of a person or thing) rightly so called; proper: he's my idea of a real man 
Jamie is my only real friend.
3 [attributive] informal complete; utter (used for emphasis): the tour turned out to be a real disaster.
4 [attributive] adjusted for changes in the value of money; assessed by purchasing power: real incomes had fallen by 30 percent 
an increase in real terms of 11.6 percent.
5 Law of fixed property (i.e., land and buildings), as distinct from personal property: he lost nearly all of his real holdings.
6 Mathematics (of a number or quantity) having no imaginary part. See imaginary.
7 Optics (of an image) of a kind in which the light that forms it actually passes through it; not virtual. 
▶adverb [as submodifier] informal, chiefly North American really; very: my head hurts real bad. 
PHRASES
for real informal used to assert that something is genuine or is actually the case: I'm not playing games—this is for real! 
• North American used in questions to express surprise or to question the truth or seriousness of what one has seen or heard: are these guys for real? get real! informal, chiefly North American used to convey that an idea or statement is foolish or overly idealistic: You want teens to have committed sexual relationships? Get real! real live humorous used to emphasize the existence of something, especially if it is surprising or unusual: a real live detective had been at the factory. real money informal money in a large or significant amount. the real thing informal a thing that is absolutely genuine or authentic: you've never been in love before, so how can you be sure this is the real thing?DERIVATIVES realness nounORIGIN late Middle English (as a legal term meaning ‘relating to things, especially real property’): from Anglo-Norman French, from late Latin realis, from Latin res ‘thing.’
