reason 
BrE ˈriːz(ə)n, AmE ˈrizən 
A. noun 
① Countable(cause) 原因 yuányīn (explanation) 理由 lǐyóu a reason for [something]; 某事的原因 the reason behind [something]; 某事背后的原因 for a/no good reason 有/无正当原因地 for no reason 无故 why did you do it? — for no reason 你为什么那么做？── 不为什么 the man attacked me for no apparent reason 那名男子莫名其妙地袭击了我 for some reason (or other) 出于某种原因 for some unknown reason 出于某种未知的原因 if you are late for any reason, … 不论你为何迟到… for reasons best known to himself/herself 出于唯有他/她自己才知道的原因 for the very good or very simple reason that … 就是因为… I won't do it, for that very simple reason 就是因为这个，我才不会那么做的 for reasons of [something]; 由于某事物的原因 for reasons of space/time/security 由于空间/时间/安全原因 for health/personal reasons 由于健康/个人原因 people who, for whatever reason, are unable to support themselves 那些无论出于何种原因都没法养活自己的人们 I have reason to believe that … 我有理由相信… by reason of [something] formal 因为某事物 to give [somebody] a reason 给某人一个理由 to have one's reasons (to do [something]) 有理由（做某事） (and that's) the reason why … （那就是）为什么… the reason why I'm late is that … 我迟到是因为… a reason for [something]/doing [something]; 某事/做某事的理由 she gave no reasons for her decision 她没解释为什么这样决定 what was his reason for resigning? 他为什么辞职？ my reason for going or the reason for my going is (that) … 我要去的理由是… the reason is (that) … 理由是… the reason given is that … 给出的理由是… 
② Uncountable(grounds) 正当理由 zhèngdàng lǐyóu there is good reason for [something]/doing [something] 某事物/做某事是有道理的 to have every reason for doing or to do [something] 完全有理由做某事 I have reason to believe (that) … 我有理由相信… to have good/no good reason to do [something] 有/无充分理由做某事 I see no reason to think so 我不明白为什么要这么想 there is reason (for [somebody]) to do [something]; （某人）有理由做某事 there was no reason for you to worry 你没必要担心 all the more reason for [something] 某事更多的理由 this result gives us all the more reason for optimism 这个结果让我们更有理由乐观了 all the more reason to do [something] or for doing [something] 做某事更多的理由 with (good) reason, not without reason 有道理地 she was angry, and with good or not without reason 她很生气，这是理所当然的 without good reason 没道理地 
③ Uncountable(common sense) 情理 qínglǐ to be open to reason 听劝 she just isn't open to reason 她就是听不进道理 there's a good deal of reason in that 那样做是合情合理的 to listen to or see reason 明白事理 to make [somebody] see reason 让某人明白道理 within reason 合情合理地 the voice of reason 理性之声 sweet reason humorous 美好的理由 it or that stands to reason 这是很显然的 it stands to reason (that) … …是明摆着的 
④ Uncountable(ability to think logically) 理性 lǐxìng only human beings are capable of reason 唯有人类有理性思考的能力 the power of reason 推理能力 to lose one's reason dated 丧失理智 
B.  transitive verb 
① (conclude) 推断 tuīduàn to reason (that) …; 推断… she must have killed him, he reasoned 肯定是她杀了他，他推断道 
② (argue) 争辩 zhēngbiàn to reason (that) …; 争辩说… suppose she killed him, he reasoned 假如是她杀了他呢，他争辩道 
C.  intransitive verb 推理 tuīlǐ mankind's power or ability to reason 人类的思考能力 to reason from [something]; 根据…进行推理 ‹facts›PHRASAL VERBS reason out transitive verb[reason out something, reason something out] 对…进行分析推断 duì… jìnxíng fēnxī tuīduàn ‹problem, enigma›to reason out how the thief got in 推断出贼是如何进来的 reason with transitive verb[reason with somebody] 劝说 quànshuō one can't reason with him 他不可理喻 
reason 
▶noun
1 the main reason for his decision: cause, ground(s), basis, rationale; motive, motivation, purpose, point, aim, intention, objective, goal; explanation, justification, argument, defense, vindication, excuse, pretext.
2 postmodern voices railing against reason: rationality, logic, logical thought, reasoning, cognition; formal ratiocination.
3 he was losing his reason: sanity, mind, mental faculties; senses, wits; informal marbles.
4 he continues, against reason, to love her: good sense, good judgment, common sense, wisdom, sagacity, reasonableness.
▶verb
1 a young child is unable to reason: think rationally, think logically, use one's common sense, use one's head/brain; formal cogitate, ratiocinate.
2 Scott reasoned that Annabel might be ill: calculate, come to the conclusion, conclude, reckon, think, judge, deduce, infer, surmise; informal figure.
3 she tried to reason with her husband: bring around, coax, persuade, prevail on, convince, make someone see the light.
PHRASES
by reason of formal by reason of mental illness, he will not be held in contempt of court: because of, on account of, as a result of, owing to, due to, by virtue of, thanks to. reason something out we finally reasoned out the cryptic message in chapter twelve: work out, think through, make sense of, get to the bottom of, puzzle out; informal figure out. with reason he was anxious, with reason, about his own political survival: justifiably, justly, legitimately, rightly, reasonably. 
WORD LINKS
reason rational relating to reasonWord Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.
USAGE
the reason why, the reason is because
1 The construction the reason why … has been objected to on the grounds that the subordinate clause should express a statement, using a that clause, not imply a question with a why clause: the reason (that) I decided not to phone, rather than the reason why I decided not to phone. The reason why has been called a redundancy to be avoided, but it is a mild one, and idiomatic.
2 An objection is also made to the construction the reason is because, as in the reason I didn't phone is because my mother has been ill. The objection is made on the grounds that either 'because' or 'the reason' is redundant; it is better to use the word that instead (the reason I didn't phone is that …) or rephrase altogether (I didn't phone because …). Nevertheless, both the above usages are well established and, although they may be inelegant, they are generally accepted in standard English.Usage notes show additional guidance on finer points of English usage.
