recall 
A.  /BrE rɪˈkɔːl, AmE rəˈkɔl
transitive verb 
① (summon back) «government, leader» 召回 zhàohuí ‹parliament, MP, ambassador, troops›
② (request the return of) «library, librarian» 收回 shōuhuí ‹book, tape›; «manufacturer» 召回 zhàohuí ‹product›
③ (order money to be repaid) «bank» 回收 huíshōu ‹loan, sum›
④ (remember) 回忆起 huíyì qǐ ‹incident, moment, occasion, name›I recall seeing them before 我记得以前见过他们 as I recall 就我回忆 you will recall that … 你会回想起… ‘it was in 1972,’he recalled “那是在1972年，”他回忆道 I recall her as a lovely young girl 我记得她是个可爱的小姑娘 
⑤ (bring to mind) «music, incident, encounter» 使人想起 shǐ rén xiǎngqǐ ‹occasion, episode›a tune that recalled the past for me 一首让我想起过往的曲子 
⑥ (bring back) «doctor» 使…恢复 shǐ… huīfù ‹person, animal›to recall [somebody] to [something]; 使某人恢复到某状态 to recall [somebody] to life/consciousness 使某人复活/苏醒 
B.  /BrE ˈriːkɔːl, AmE ˈriˌkɔl, riˈkɔl
noun 
① Countable(of parliament, ambassador) 召回 zhàohuí the government ordered the recall of its troops from the island 政府命令其部队撤出该岛 
② Countable(of books) 收回 shōuhuí (of product) 召回 zhàohuí the library's termly recall of books 图书馆对图书的定期收回 
③ Countable(order for money to be returned) 还款令 huánkuǎnlìng the bank is contemplating the recall of its loan/funds 银行正在考虑收回贷款/资金 
④ Uncountable(memory) 回忆 huíyì powers of recall 记忆力 to have total recall of [something] 完全记得某事 
⑤ Countable(summons to troops) 归队号声 guīduì hàoshēng to sound the recall 吹响归队号 
⑥ Uncountable(undoing) 取消 qǔxiāo the past was gone and beyond recall 过去的事情一去不复返了 
recall 
▶verb 
rəˈkôl 
[with object]
1 bring (a fact, event, or situation) back into one's mind, especially so as to recount it to others; remember: I can still vaguely recall being taken to the hospital 
[with direct speech] : “He was awfully fond of teasing people,” she recalled 
[with clause] : he recalled how he felt at the time. 
• cause one to remember or think of: the film's analysis of contemporary concerns recalls The Big Chill. 
• (recall someone/something to) bring the memory or thought of someone or something to (a person or their mind): the smell of a black-currant bush has ever since recalled to me that evening. 
• call up (stored computer data) for processing or display.
2 officially order (someone) to return to a place: the Panamanian ambassador was recalled from Peru. 
• select (a sports player) as a member of a team from which they have previously been dropped: the Fulham defender has been recalled to the Welsh squad for the World Cup. 
• (of a manufacturer) request all the purchasers of (a certain product) to return it, as the result of the discovery of a fault. 
• bring (someone) out of a state of inattention or reverie: her action recalled him to the present. 
• archaic revoke or annul (an action or decision). 
▶noun 
ˈrēˌkôl rēˈkôl 

1 an act or instance of officially recalling someone or something: a recall of Parliament. 
• North American the removal of an elected government official from office by a petition followed by voting.
2 the action or faculty of remembering something learned or experienced: he has amazing recall 
people's understanding and subsequent recall of stories or events. 
• the proportion of the number of relevant documents retrieved from a database in response to an inquiry. 
PHRASES
beyond recall in such a way that restoration is impossible: shopping developments have already blighted other parts of the city beyond recall.DERIVATIVES recallable 
rəˈkôləb(ə)l 
adjectiveORIGIN late 16th century (as a verb): from re- ‘again’ + call, suggested by Latin revocare or French rappeler ‘call back.’
