receive 
BrE rɪˈsiːv, AmE rəˈsiv 
A. transitive verb 
① (get) 收到 shōudào ‹gift, letter, payment, reply›; 接到 jiēdào ‹phone call›; 得到 dédào ‹information, support›; 接受 jiēshòu ‹prize, advice, help›he received 50 enquiries after advertising the job 登出招聘广告后，有50人次向他咨询 he received an award for bravery from the police service 他因其勇敢行为受到警方嘉奖 ‘received with thanks’ (on receipt) “收悉，多谢” ‘all contributions gratefully received’ (on notice, letter) “捐助均已收到，我等不胜感激” 
② (sustain, undergo) 受 shòu ‹injury›; 遭受 zāoshòu ‹blow, setback›; 接受 jiēshòu ‹training, education›he received a 30-year sentence 他被判30年徒刑 the event received wide press coverage 该事件被新闻界广泛报道 the film received its premiere in London 该电影在伦敦首映 the Bill will receive its first reading today 今天将对该法案进行第一次宣读 
③ (meet with) «person, book, film, performance» 受到 shòudào ‹ovation, welcome›; «person» 接受 jiēshòu ‹congratulations, thanks›I received a lot of criticism for that 因为那件事我遭到许多批评 the rulings have received widespread acceptance 裁决受到广泛赞同 she received hearty congratulations from the head teacher 她受到了校长的衷心祝贺 
④ formal (welcome) 欢迎 huānyíng to be warmly received 受到热烈欢迎 the King received the French delegation/ambassador at his palace 国王在宫中接见了法国代表团一行/大使 I was received with open arms 我受到了热情的欢迎 
⑤ (react to) 对…作出反应 duì… zuòchū fǎnyìng ‹performance, reform, suggestion, article›how was the play received? 这部戏反响如何？ the play was well received by the critics 这部戏得到了评论家的好评 to be warmly received 受到热心关注 the package of reforms was positively received 人们对整套改革方案反应积极 to receive [something] with [something]; 以某种态度对待某事物 the statistics were received with concern 人们对统计数据表示担忧 
⑥ (accept as member) 接纳…加入 jiēnà… jiārù ‹person›to be received into [something]; 获准加入 ‹church, order›
⑦ Radio, Television (pick up) 接收 jiēshōu ‹programme, channel, signal›
⑧ Radio, Telecommunications (hear) 收听到 shōutīng dào are you receiving me? 你听到我的声音了吗？ I’m receiving you loud and clear 我能听到你的声音，又响亮又清晰 
⑨ especially BrE (buy illegally) 非法收购 fēifǎ shōugòu ‹jewellery, paintings›to receive stolen goods 收购赃物 
⑩ AmE (in baseball) 接 jiē ‹ball›
B.  intransitive verb 
① especially BrE (buy stolen goods) 收赃 shōu zāng 
② (in baseball) 接球 jiē qiú 
receive 
▶verb
1 Toni received an award 
they received $650 in damages: be given, be presented with, be awarded, collect, garner; get, obtain, gain, acquire; win, be paid, earn, gross, net. ANTONYMS give, present.
2 she received a letter: be sent, be in receipt of, accept delivery of, accept. ANTONYMS send.
3 Alec received the news on Monday: be told, be informed of, be notified of, hear, discover, find out (about), learn; informal get wind of.
4 he received her suggestion with a complete lack of interest: hear, listen to; respond to, react to.
5 she received a serious injury: experience, sustain, undergo, meet with; suffer, bear.
6 they received their guests: greet, welcome, say hello to.
7 she's not receiving visitors: entertain, see.
