recover 
BrE rɪˈkʌvə, AmE rɪˈkəvər 

A.  transitive verb 
① (get back) 追回 zhuīhuí ‹document, jewellery, vehicle, debt›; 收复 shōufù ‹territory›they recovered the car from the river 他们从河里把汽车捞上来了 
② (regain) 恢复 huīfù ‹faculties, health, sight›to recover one's confidence/strength/breath 恢复信心/体力/正常呼吸 to recover consciousness 苏醒过来 
③ (recoup) 挽回 wǎnhuí ‹expenses, loss, time›the right to recover damages 获得损害赔偿的权利 
④ (reclaim for use) 利用 lìyòng ‹acres, area›to recover land from the sea 填海造地 
⑤ (regain control of) 重新获得 chóngxīn huòdé ‹balance, peace of mind›to recover one's composure, to recover oneself 使自己平静下来 
⑥ (retrieve) 回收 huíshōu ‹space capsule›; 找回 zhǎohuí ‹body›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (recuperate) «person» 康复 kāngfù to recover from …; 从…中康复 he fell into a coma and did not recover 他昏迷后再也没醒过来 
② (regain equilibrium) «person, family, community» 恢复正常 huīfù zhèngcháng to recover from …; 从…中恢复正常 
③ (regain financial strength) «economy, stock market» 复苏 fùsū ; «currency, shares» 回升 huíshēng 
recover 
riˈkəvər

▶verb
1 [no object] return to a normal state of health, mind, or strength: Neil is still recovering from shock 
the economy has begun to recover. 
• (be recovered) (of a person) be well again: you'll be fully recovered before you know it.
2 [with object] find or regain possession of (something stolen or lost): police recovered a stolen video. 
• regain control of (oneself or of a physical or mental state): he recovered his balance and sped on 
one hour later I had recovered consciousness. 
• regain or secure (compensation) by means of a legal process or subsequent profits: many companies recovered their costs within six months. 
• make up for (a loss in position or time): the French recovered the lead. 
• remove or extract (an energy source or industrial chemical) for use, reuse, or waste treatment. 
▶noun (the recover) a defined position of a firearm forming part of a military drill: bring the firelock to the recover. DERIVATIVES recoverer nounORIGIN Middle English (originally with reference to health): from Anglo-Norman French recoverer, from Latin recuperare ‘get again.’
