recording 
BrE rɪˈkɔːdɪŋ, AmE rəˈkɔrdɪŋ 
noun 
① Uncountable(action) 录制 lùzhì sound-/video-recording 录音/录像 a recording engineer/artist/studio 录音工程师/唱片艺人/录音室 the recording of [something] 某物的录制 
② Countable(recorded image, sound) 录制的音像 lùzhì de yīnxiàng a tape-recording 一段磁带录音 a video-recording 一段录像 a recording of [something] 某物的录制品 I'm going to make a recording of the next tune 我准备把下一支曲子录下来 a recording on [something] 录在某物上的东西 a recording of the concert on CD/DVD 录制在CD/DVD上的音乐会 to play a recording 播放录制品 
record 
▶noun
1 written records of the past: account(s), document(s), documentation, data, file(s), dossier(s), evidence, report(s); annals, archive(s), chronicle(s); minutes, transactions, proceedings, transcript(s); certificate(s), instrument(s), deed(s); register, log, logbook; trademark daytimer; Law muniment(s).
2 we just lounged about, listening to records and chatting and laughing: album, vinyl; dated phonograph record, LP, single, forty-five, seventy-eight.
3 the judge weighed the factor of his good record: previous conduct/performance, track record, history, life history, reputation.
4 she's got armed robbery on her record: criminal record, police record; informal rap sheet.
5 she won the race and set a new record: best performance, highest achievement; best time, fastest time; world record.
6 a lasting record of what they have achieved: reminder, memorial, souvenir, memento, remembrance, testament.
▶adjective record profits: record-breaking, best ever, unsurpassed, unparalleled, unequaled, second to none.
▶verb
1 the doctor recorded her blood pressure: write down, put in writing, take down, note, make a note of, jot down, put down on paper; document, put on record, enter, register, log; list, catalog.
2 the thermometer recorded a high temperature: indicate, register, show, display.
3 the team recorded their fourth win: achieve, accomplish, chalk up, notch up.
4 the recital was recorded live: make a record/recording of, tape, tape-record; video-record, videotape, video.
PHRASES
off the record
1 his comments were off the record: unofficial, confidential, in (strict) confidence, not to be made public.
2 they admitted, off the record, that they had made a mistake: unofficially, privately, in (strict) confidence, confidentially, between ourselves.
