recognize 
BrE ˈrɛkəɡnʌɪz, AmE ˈrɛkəɡˌnaɪz 
transitive verb 
① (identify) 认出 rènchū ‹voice, friend, tune, quotation›did you recognize each other? 你们认出对方了吗？ the shopkeeper recognized him as a local vagrant 店主认出他是当地的一个流浪汉 
② (identify from knowledge) 辨别 biànbié ‹symptom, sign›
③ (officially acknowledge) 承认 chéngrèn ‹person, government, claim, right›to recognize that … 承认… to be recognized as … 被认定是 ‹heir, owner›to be recognized by law 受到法律承认 to recognize [somebody's] claim to ownership 承认某人的物权要求 
④ (show appreciation of) «person, government, firm» 赞赏 zànshǎng ‹talent, person›her services to the nation have now been recognized 她为国家做的贡献现在得到了嘉奖 
⑤ (acknowledge) 认识到 rènshi dào ‹problem, phenomenon›we recognized it as a genuine need 我们意识到这是个真实的需求 they refuse to recognize that they have done wrong 他们拒不承认他们做错了 nobody had recognized his artistic gift 没人赏识他的艺术天分 
recognize 
ˈrekəɡˌnīz

▶verb [with object]
1 identify (someone or something) from having encountered them before; know again: I recognized her when her wig fell off 
Julia hardly recognized Jill when they met. 
• identify from knowledge of appearance or character: Pat is very good at recognizing wildflowers. 
• (of a computer or other machine) automatically identify and respond correctly to (a sound, printed character, etc.).
2 acknowledge the existence, validity, or legality of: the defense is recognized in Mexican law 
he was recognized as an international authority 
[with clause] : it is important to recognize that a variety of indirect forms of discrimination operate. 
• officially regard (a qualification) as valid or proper: these qualifications are recognized by the Department of Education 
(as adjective recognized) : courses that lead to recognized qualifications. 
• grant diplomatic recognition to (a country or government): they were refusing to recognize the puppet regime. 
• show official appreciation of; reward formally: his work was recognized by an honorary degree from Georgetown University. 
• (of a person presiding at a meeting or debate) call on (someone) to speak. DERIVATIVES recognizer nounORIGIN late Middle English (earliest attested as a term in Scots law): from Old French reconniss-, stem of reconnaistre, from Latin recognoscere ‘know again, recall to mind,’ from re- ‘again’ + cognoscere ‘learn.’
