red 
BrE rɛd, AmE rɛd 

A.  adjective 
① (of colour) 红色的 hóngsè de to go or turn red 变红 to colour [something] red 将某物涂成红色 dark or deep red 深红的 light or pale red 浅红的 
② (bloodshot) 充血的 chōngxuè de he had red eyes from lack of sleep 他因缺乏睡眠双眼布满血丝 her eyes were red with weeping 她两眼哭得红红的 
③ (irritated) 红肿的 hóngzhǒng de ‹skin, hands›; 充血的 chōngxuè de ‹eyes›he had come out in dark red blotches 他身上起了深红色的疹块 
④ (flushed) 涨红的 zhànghóng de ‹face, cheeks›; 脸涨得通红的 liǎn zhàng de tōnghóng de ‹person›to go red «face, cheeks» 涨得通红 «person» 脸涨得通红 liǎn zhàng de tōnghóng to grow red «face, cheeks» 涨得通红 to be/go red in the face 脸红/脸涨红 was my face red! 我真是赧颜啊！ there were red faces at the Embassy 使馆人员感到很尴尬 to be red with [something]; 因某事脸红 she was red with anger 她气得满脸通红 
⑤ (ginger) 红褐色的 hónghèsè de ‹hair, curls›; 有红褐色皮肤的 yǒu hónghèsè pífū de ‹person›
⑥ Red Politics colloquial pejorative (communist) 赤色的 chìsè de (left-wing) 左翼的 zuǒyì de he's pretty red 他很左 
B.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(colour) 红色 hóngsè a rich/dark red 鲜红/深红 in red 红色的 hóngsè de I’ve marked the corrections in red 我已经用红笔改正过了 the traffic lights were on red 红灯亮了 to see red colloquial 火冒三丈 
② Uncountable(clothing) 红衣服 hóng yīfu to wear red 穿红衣服 dressed in red 穿着红衣服的 
③ Uncountable(material) 红色材料 hóngsè cáiliào do you have the sofa in red? 这种沙发有红色的吗？ 
④ Uncountable and countable(wine) 红葡萄酒 hóngpútaojiǔ 
⑤ Uncountable(deficit) the red 赤字 chìzì to be in/get out of the red 负债/偿清债务 fùzhài/chángqīng zhàiwù to be £500 in the red 亏欠500英镑 kuīqiàn
5 0 0 yīngbàng to go/plunge into the red 开始/陷入亏损 kāishǐ/xiànrù kuīsǔn the company has plunged $37 million into the red 该公司一下子负债3,700万美元 
⑥ CountableRed Politics colloquial pejorative 赤色分子 chìsè fènzǐ Reds under the bed 无处不在的赤色分子 
⑦ Countable(snooker ball) 红球 hóng qiú 
⑧ Uncountable(in roulette) 红方 hóng fāng 
red 
red

▶adjective (redder, reddest)
1 of a color at the end of the spectrum next to orange and opposite violet, as of blood, fire, or rubies: her red lips 
the sky was turning red outside. 
• (of a person or their face or complexion) flushed or rosy, especially with embarrassment, anger, or a healthy glow: there were some red faces at headquarters. 
• (of a person's eyes) bloodshot or having pink rims, especially with tiredness or crying: her eyes were red and swollen. 
• (of hair or fur) of a reddish-brown or orange-brown color: her long, red hair 
his hair was red. 
• dated, offensive (of a people) having or regarded as having reddish skin. 
• of or denoting the suits hearts and diamonds in a deck of cards. 
• (of wine) made from dark grapes and colored by their skins. 
• denoting a red light or flag used as a signal to stop. 
• used to denote something forbidden, dangerous, or urgent: the force went on red alert. 
• (of a ski run) of the second highest level of difficulty, as indicated by colored markers. 
• Physics denoting one of three colors of quark.
2 (Red) informal, chiefly derogatory communist or socialist (used especially during the Cold War with reference to the former Soviet Union).
3 archaic or literary stained with blood, or involving bloodshed or violence: red battle stamps his foot and nations feel the shock. 
▶noun
1 red color or pigment: colors range from yellow to deep red 
their work is marked in red by the teacher 
the reds and browns of wood. 
• red clothes or material: she could not wear red.
2 a red thing or person, in particular: 
• a red wine. 
• a red ball in billiards. 
• a red light.
3 (also Red) informal, chiefly derogatory a communist or socialist.
4 (the red) the situation of owing money to a bank or making a loss in a business operation: the company was $4 million in the red 
they would have been struggling to keep their businesses out of the red 
small declines in revenue can soon send an airline plunging into the red. [from the conventional use of red ink to indicate debt items.] 
PHRASES
better dead than red (or better red than dead) a cold-war slogan claiming that the prospect of nuclear war is preferable to that of a communist society (or vice versa).(as) red as a beet (of a person) red-faced, typically through embarrassment.red in tooth and claw involving savage or merciless conflict or competition: nature, red in tooth and claw. [from Tennyson's In Memoriam.] the red planet a name for Mars. the red, white, and blue US informal the US national flag: learning respect for the red, white, and blue. see red informal become very angry suddenly: the mere thought of Peter with Nicole made her see red.DERIVATIVES reddy adjective. redly adverbORIGIN Old English rēad, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch rood and German rot, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin rufus, ruber,Greek eruthros, and Sanskrit rudhira- ‘red.’
