reflect 
BrE rɪˈflɛkt, AmE rəˈflɛkt 

A.  transitive verb 
① (show image of) «window, water, mirror» 映出 yìngchū 
② (throw back) «surface, sand» 反射 fǎnshè ‹light, heat, sound›to bask in reflected glory figurative 沾别人的光 
③ (embody, represent) 显示 xiǎnshì ‹tastes, growth, problems›a cultural development that reflects a change in values 反映价值观变化的文化发展 his music reflects his feelings 他的音乐表达了他的感情 
④ (think) 认真思考 rènzhēn sīkǎo to reflect that …; 琢磨着… 
B.  intransitive verb (think) 深思 shēnsī to reflect on or upon [something]; 思考某事 PHRASAL VERB reflect on, reflect upon transitive verb «behaviour, courage, betrayal» 导致 dǎozhì ; «scandal, accusation, incident» 给…带来影响 gěi… dàilái yǐngxiǎng a success that reflects great credit on all concerned 给所有相关人员带来荣誉的成功 how is this going to reflect on the school? 这对学校的声誉会有什么影响？ to reflect badly/well on [somebody]/[something] 给某人/某事物造成坏的/好的影响 
reflect 
rəˈflekt

▶verb
1 [with object] (of a surface or body) throw back (heat, light, or sound) without absorbing it: when the sun's rays hit the earth a lot of the heat is reflected back into space 
(as adjective reflected) : his eyes gleamed in the reflected light. 
• (of a mirror or shiny surface) show an image of: he could see himself reflected in Keith's mirrored glasses. 
• embody or represent (something) in a faithful or appropriate way: stocks are priced at a level that reflects a company's prospects 
schools should reflect cultural differences. 
• (of an action or situation) bring (credit or discredit) to the relevant parties: the main contract is progressing well, which reflects great credit on those involved. 
• [no object] (reflect well/badly on) bring about a good or bad impression of: the incident reflects badly on the operating practices of the airlines.
2 [no object] (reflect on/upon) think deeply or carefully about: he reflected with sadness on the unhappiness of his marriage 
[with clause] : Charles reflected that maybe there was hope for the family after all. 
• archaic make disparaging remarks about. ORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French reflecter or Latin reflectere, from re- ‘back’ + flectere ‘to bend.’
