regret 
BrE rɪˈɡrɛt, AmE rəˈɡrɛt 

A.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -tt-) 
① (be sorry for) 为…懊悔 wèi… àohuǐ ‹words, mistake›I regret my decision 我后悔作了这个决定 you won't regret it! 你绝不会后悔的！ to regret doing [something]; 后悔做某事 I regretted having left so early 我后悔这么早就离开了 to live to regret [something] 为某事抱憾终生 
② (feel sad about) 为…惋惜 wèi… wǎnxī ‹death, absence›we regret to hear that you have been ill 听说你病了，我们感到很难过 
③ (express apology for) 对…表示遗憾 duì… biǎoshì yíhàn ‹fact, situation›your court case is not going at all well, I regret to say 说来很遗憾，你的案子进展得很不顺利 
B.  noun 
① Uncountable(remorse) 懊悔 àohuǐ to feel/express regret for one's actions/words; 对某人的行为/言辞感到/表示懊悔 with regret 懊悔地 
② Uncountable(sadness) 惋惜 wǎnxī our regret at his death/the sad news/your loss 我们对他的死/这不幸消息/痛失所爱的惋惜 with regret 惋惜地 
③ Countable and uncountable(disappointment) 遗憾 yíhàn regrets about [something] 对某事物的遗憾 
④ Countable and uncountable(apology) 道歉 dàoqiàn please give your grandmother my regrets 请向你祖母转达我的歉意 
regret 
rəˈɡret

▶verb (regrets, regretting, regretted) [with object] feel sad, repentant, or disappointed over (something that has happened or been done, especially a loss or missed opportunity): she immediately regretted her words 
[with clause] : I regretted that he did not see you. 
• used in polite formulas to express apology for or sadness over something unfortunate or unpleasant: any inconvenience to readers is regretted 
[with clause] : we regret that no tickets may be exchanged. 
• archaic feel sorrow for the loss or absence of (something pleasant): my home, when shall I cease to regret you! 
▶noun a feeling of sadness, repentance, or disappointment over something that has happened or been done: she expressed her regret at Virginia's death 
he had to decline, to his regret. 
• (often regrets) an instance or cause of regret: she had few regrets in leaving the house. 
• (often one's regrets) used in polite formulas to express apology for or sadness at an occurrence or an inability to accept an invitation: please give your grandmother my regrets. ORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French regreter ‘bewail (the dead),’ perhaps from the Germanic base of greet2 .
