regular 
BrE ˈrɛɡjʊlə, AmE ˈrɛɡjələr 

A.  adjective 
① (evenly spaced in time) 定期的 dìngqī de ‹activity, payment, service›; 均匀的 jūnyún de ‹footsteps›the regular ticking of the clock 钟有规律的滴答声 her regular walk before breakfast 她早餐前固定要有的散步 at regular intervals 每隔一定时间 on a regular basis 定期地 regular weekly deliveries 每周固定的送货 as regular as clockwork 极有规律地 ‹appear, wake›
② (evenly arranged in space) 间隔均匀的 jiàngé jūnyún de ‹milestones, lampposts, trees›; 整齐的 zhěngqí de ‹footprints, lines, pattern›at regular intervals or points 间隙均匀地 ‹plant, place›in regular formation 按整齐编队 ‹march, fly›the trees made regular patches of shade along the road 一路上片片树荫均匀有致 the curtains have regular vertical stripes in red and black 窗帘上均匀分布着红色和黑色的竖条 
③ Medicine 有规律的 yǒu guīlǜ de ‹heartbeat, breathing, bowel movements, periods›
④ (frequent) 频繁的 pínfán de a fairly regular occurrence 出现频率相当高的事情 to take regular exercise 经常锻炼 I make regular payments into a savings account 我常常往储蓄账户里存钱 
⑤ (habitual) 惯常的 guàncháng de regular customers/listeners/viewers/travellers 老顾客/老听众/老观众/经常出行者 he was a regular visitor to her house 他是她家的常客 a regular offender 惯犯 to be regular in one's habits 有固定习惯 
⑥ attributive (usual) 通常的 tōngcháng de ‹time, activity, walk›; 平常的 píngcháng de ‹price›my regular bedtime 我通常就寝的时间 my regular doctor/hairdresser 平常给我看病的医生/为我理发的理发师 a regular sexual partner 固定的性伙伴 one of his regular haunts 他经常光顾的地方之一 [somebody's] regular duties 某人的日常工作 to keep (very) regular hours 作息（非常）有规律 
⑦ (conventional) 传统的 chuántǒng de ‹method›; 通常的 tōngcháng de ‹channels›to follow regular procedures 按正常程序办事 
⑧ (permanent) 稳定的 wěndìng de ‹job, income›to be in regular use 被持久使用 to be in regular employment 有固定工作 
⑨ (even) 端正的 duānzhèng de ‹features›; 匀称的 yúnchèn de ‹pattern, design›; 整齐的 zhěngqí de ‹teeth›; 规则的 guīzé de ‹shape, pattern›
⑩ especially AmE (standard) 标准的 biāozhǔn de ‹size›; 标准装的 biāozhǔnzhuāng de ‹fries, milkshake›
⑪ attributive especially AmE (ordinary) 普通的 pǔtōng de ‹cola, pasta›regular gasoline 普通汽油 pǔtōng qìyóu 
⑫ attributive especially AmE colloquial (unpretentious) 诚实可靠的 chéngshí kěkào de he's a regular guy 他是个好人 
⑬ attributive Administration, Military 正规的 zhèngguī de ‹soldier, police force›; 正规军的 zhèngguījūn de ‹staff, officer›a regular civil servant 正编公务员 the regular army 正规军 
⑭ Linguistics 规则的 guīzé de ‹plural, form, ending›regular verbs 规则动词 
⑮ attributive dated colloquial (complete) 十足的 shízú de ‹fool, idiot, villain›; 真正的 zhēnzhèng de ‹hero, genius›; 彻底的 chèdǐ de ‹mess, muddle›their dog is a regular nuisance! 他们的狗真讨厌！ the whole thing was a regular disaster 整件事完全是场灾难 
⑯ Mathematics 正的 zhèng de a regular geometrical figure/polygon 正几何形/多边形 
B.  noun 
① Countable(visitor, guest) 常客 chángkè (customer) 老顾客 lǎogùkè (traveller) 老乘客 lǎochéngkè (listener) 老听众 lǎotīngzhòng (viewer) 老观众 lǎoguānzhòng pub regulars 酒吧的常客 
② CountableMilitary (soldier) 正规军人 zhèngguījūnrén 
③ CountableSport (player) 正式队员 zhèngshì duìyuán 
④ CountableRadio, Television 老主持人 lǎozhǔchírén Theatre (performer) 正式演员 zhèngshì yǎnyuán 
⑤ Uncountable AmE (petrol) 普通汽油 pǔtōng qìyóu 
⑥ Countable AmE Politics (party stalwart) 忠诚党员 zhōngchéng dǎngyuán Democratic regulars 民主党的忠诚党员 
regular 
ˈreɡyələr

▶adjective
1 arranged in or constituting a constant or definite pattern, especially with the same space between individual instances: place the flags at regular intervals 
a regular arrangement. 
• happening in such a pattern with the same time between individual instances; recurring at short uniform intervals: a regular monthly check 
her breathing became deeper, more regular. 
• (of a structure or arrangement) arranged in or constituting a symmetrical or harmonious pattern: beautifully regular, heart-shaped leaves. 
• (of a person) defecating or menstruating at predictable times.
2 done or happening frequently: regular border clashes 
parties were a fairly regular occurrence. 
• (of a person) doing the same thing or going to the same place frequently or at uniform intervals: a regular visitor.
3 conforming to or governed by an accepted standard of procedure or convention: policies carried on by his deputies through regular channels. 
• [attributive] of or belonging to the permanent professional armed forces of a country: a regular soldier. 
• (of a person) properly trained or qualified and pursuing a full-time occupation: a strong distrust of regular doctors. 
• Christian Church subject to or bound by religious rule; belonging to a religious or monastic order: the regular clergy. Contrasted with secular ( sense
2 of the adjective). 
• informal rightly so called; complete; absolute (used for emphasis): this place is a regular fisherman's paradise.
4 used, done, or happening on a habitual basis; usual; customary: I couldn't get an appointment with my regular barber 
our regular suppliers. 
• chiefly North American of a normal or ordinary kind; not special: it's richer than regular pasta. 
• (chiefly in commercial use) denoting merchandise, especially food or clothing, of average, medium, or standard size: a shake and regular fries. 
• North American (of a person) not pretentious or arrogant; ordinary and friendly: advertising agencies who try to portray their candidates as regular guys. 
• (in surfing and other board sports) with the left leg in front of the right on the board.
5 Grammar (of a word) following the normal pattern of inflection: a regular verb.
6 Geometry (of a figure) having all sides and all angles equal: a regular polygon. 
• (of a solid) bounded by a number of equal figures.
7 Botany (of a flower) having radial symmetry. 
▶noun a regular customer or member, for example of a bar, store, or team: attracting a richer clientele as its regulars. 
• a regular member of the armed forces. 
• US a member of a political party who is faithful to that party: he plans to sell tickets to the big-money party regulars. 
• Christian Church one of the regular clergy. ORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French reguler, from Latin regularis, from regula ‘rule.’
