relative 
BrE ˈrɛlətɪv, AmE ˈrɛlədɪv 

A.  adjective 
① (comparative) 相对而言的 xiāngduì ér yán de ‹peace, happiness›he was a relative stranger 他相对来说是个陌生人 
② (not absolute) 相对的 xiāngduì de ‹standard›relative value 相对值 
③ (respective) 各自的 gèzì de ‹values, merits, importance›
④ (corresponding) 相应的 xiāngyìng de to be relative to [something] 与某事物相对应 petrol consumption is relative to speed 耗油量与速度是成比例的 
⑤ formal (relevant) 相关的 xiāngguān de ‹fact, document›
⑥ Linguistics 关系的 guānxì de a relative pronoun 关系代词 a relative clause 关系从句 
B.  noun (relation) 亲戚 qīnqi 
relative 
ˈrelədiv

▶adjective
1 considered in relation or in proportion to something else: the relative effectiveness of the various mechanisms is not known. 
• existing or possessing a specified characteristic only in comparison to something else; not absolute: she went down the steps into the relative darkness of the dining room 
the companies are relative newcomers to computers.
2 Grammar denoting a pronoun, determiner, or adverb that refers to an expressed or implied antecedent and attaches a subordinate clause to it, e.g., which, who. 
• (of a clause) attached to an antecedent by a relative word.
3 Music (of major and minor keys) having the same key signature.
4 (of a service rank) corresponding in grade to another in a different service. 
▶noun
1 a person connected by blood or marriage: much of my time is spent visiting relatives. 
• a species related to another by common origin: the plant is a relative of ivy.
2 Grammar a relative pronoun, determiner, or adverb.
3 Philosophy a term, thing, or concept that is dependent on something else. 
PHRASES
relative to
1 in comparison with: the figures suggest that girls are underachieving relative to boys. 
• in terms of a connection to: some stars appear to change their position relative to each other.
2 in connection with; concerning: if you have any questions relative to payment, please contact us.DERIVATIVES relatival 
ˌreləˈtīv(ə)l 
adjective relative ( sense
2 of the noun) ORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French relatif, -ive, from late Latin relativus ‘having reference or relation’ (see relate) .
