relieve 
BrE rɪˈliːv, AmE rəˈliv 

A.  transitive verb 
① (alleviate) 减轻 jiǎnqīng ‹pain, disease›; 消除 xiāochú ‹anxiety, symptoms›; 缓解 huǎnjiě ‹poverty, shortage›
② (aid, assist) 救济 jiùjì ‹population, country›
③ (on duty) 给…换班 gěi… huànbān ‹worker, sentry›I've come to relieve you for lunch 我来换你的班，你去吃中饭 
④ (of burden) 卸除 xièchú he relieved her of her suitcase when she got off the train 她下了火车后，他帮她拎行李箱 
⑤ Military 解…之围 jiě… zhī wéi ‹fortress, blockade›the general sent assault troops to relieve the garrison 将军派突击部队去要塞解围 
⑥ (provide contrast to) 调剂 tiáojì ‹drabness, seriousness›not a single tree relieved the barren landscape 没有一棵树来点缀这片荒芜之地 
B.  reflexive verb euphemistic 方便 fāngbiàn some men think nothing of relieving themselves in public 有些男人对当众解手不以为然 
relieve 
rəˈlēv

▶verb [with object]
1 cause (pain, distress, or difficulty) to become less severe or serious: the drug was used to promote sleep and to relieve pain. 
• cause (someone) to stop feeling distressed or anxious about something. 
• make less tedious or monotonous by the introduction of variety or of something striking or pleasing: the bird's body is black, relieved only by white under the tail.
2 release (someone) from duty by taking their place: another signalman relieved him at 5:30. 
• bring military support for (a besieged place): he dispatched an expedition to relieve the city. 
• Baseball (of a relief pitcher) take the place of (another pitcher) during a game.
3 (relieve someone of) take (a burden) from someone: he relieved her of her baggage. 
• free someone from (a tiresome responsibility): she relieved me of the household chores. 
• used euphemistically to indicate that someone has been deprived of something: he was relieved of his world title.
4 (relieve oneself) urinate or defecate (used euphemistically).
5 archaic make (something) stand out: the twilight relieving in purple masses the foliage of the island. DERIVATIVES relievable 
rəˈlēvəb(ə)l 
adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: from Old French relever, from Latin relevare, from re- (expressing intensive force) + levare ‘raise’ (from levis ‘light’).
