relief 
BrE rɪˈliːf, AmE rəˈlif 
noun 
① Uncountable(from pain, distress, anxiety) 解脱 jiětuō to breathe or heave a sigh of relief 松一口气 she tried all sorts of remedies, but nothing brought any lasting relief 她试了各种疗法，但没有一种有持久的疗效 to my immense relief, they didn't recognize me 让我感到万分庆幸的是，他们没有认出我 
② Uncountable(help) 救助 jiùzhù famine relief 饥荒救济 fresh troops came to the relief of the beleaguered forces 援军赶来解救被困部队 before noun 救援的 jiùyuán de ‹brigade›the relief column is expected to arrive tomorrow 救援小分队可望明日到达 
③ Uncountable(from poverty) 减轻 jiǎnqīng relief from tax 税收减免 
④ Uncountable and countable(diversion) 调剂 tiáojì Shakespeare uses the device of comic relief in most of his plays 莎士比亚在他的大部分剧作中都融入了轻松幽默的元素 
⑤ UncountableMilitary 解围 jiěwéi it was spring before any troops came to the relief of Leningrad 直到春天才有部队来为列宁格勒解围 
⑥ Countable(replacement on duty) 换班者 huànbānzhě ; before noun 轮班的 lúnbān de ‹staff›
⑦ Countable BrE (vehicle) 临时增开的车辆 línshí zēng kāi de chēliàng ; before noun 临时增加的 línshí zēngjiā de ‹bus›
⑧ UncountableArt (technique) 浮雕法 fúdiāofǎ in relief; 用浮雕法 in high/low relief 用高/低浮雕 
⑨ CountableArt (carving, moulding) 浮雕作品 fúdiāo zuòpǐn 
⑩ Uncountable(sharpness, clarity) 凸显 tūxiǎn to bring or throw [somebody]/[something] into relief; 使某人/某物变得鲜明 
⑪ UncountableGeography 起伏 qǐfú in relief; 起伏不平 the sharp relief of the mountains 山脉的高低起伏 
relief 
rəˈlēf

▶noun
1 a feeling of reassurance and relaxation following release from anxiety or distress: much to her relief, she saw the door open. 
• a cause of or occasion for relief: it was a relief to find somewhere to stay. 
• the alleviation of pain, discomfort, or distress: tablets for the relief of pain. 
• a temporary break in a generally tense or tedious situation: the comic characters aren't part of the plot but just light relief.
2 assistance, especially in the form of food, clothing, or money, given to those in special need or difficulty: raising money for famine relief 
[as modifier] : relief workers. 
• a remission of tax normally due: people who donate money to charity will receive tax relief. 
• chiefly Law the redress of a hardship or grievance. 
• the action of raising the siege of a besieged town: the relief of Mafeking.
3 a person or group of people replacing others who have been on duty: [as modifier] : the relief nurse was late. 
• Baseball the role of a relief pitcher.
4 the state of being clearly visible or obvious due to being accentuated in some way: the setting sun threw the snow-covered peaks into relief. 
• a method of molding, carving, or stamping in which the design stands out from the surface, to a greater (high relief) or lesser (bas-relief) extent. 
• a piece of sculpture in relief. 
• a representation of relief given by an arrangement of line or color or shading. 
• Geography difference in height from the surrounding terrain; the amount of variation in elevation and slope in a particular area. [via French from Italian rilievo, from rilevare ‘raise,’ from Latin relevare .] 
PHRASES
in relief
1 Art carved, molded, or stamped so as to stand out from the surface.
2 Baseball acting as a replacement pitcher. on relief chiefly North American receiving government assistance because of need.ORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French, from relever ‘raise up, relieve,’ from Latin relevare ‘raise again, alleviate.’
