repair 
BrE rɪˈpɛː, AmE rəˈpɛr 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(of furniture, window, pipe, machine, roof) 修理 xiūlǐ (of wall, road, building) 整修 zhěngxiū (of clothes, carpet, sheet) 缝补 féngbǔ ‘heel repairs while you wait’ “修理鞋后跟，立等可取” a repair to [something]; 对某物的修理 to do or carry out repairs (to or on [something]) 修理（某物） to undergo repairs 接受修理 my car had to undergo extensive repairs after the accident 车祸后我的车只好进行大修 to take [something] in for repair 将某物送去修理 to be (badly) in need of repair （非常）需要维修 to be under repair 正在修理 to be (damaged) beyond repair （损坏得）无法修理 extensive repair work 大修工作 a TV repair shop 电视机修理铺 
② Uncountableformal (condition) 状况 zhuàngkuàng to be in a good/bad state of repair, to be in good/bad repair 状况良好/不佳 that jacket of yours looks in a pretty poor state of repair! 你的那件夹克衫看起来真破！ he was generally in a pretty poor state of repair humorous 他总是一副邋遢样儿 to keep [something] in good repair 使某物保持状况良好 
B.  transitive verb 
① (mend) 修理 xiūlǐ ‹furniture, window, pipe, machine, roof›; 整修 zhěngxiū ‹wall, road, building›; 缝补 féngbǔ ‹clothes, carpet, sheet›to have [something] repaired; 让人修理某物 it isn’t worth having it repaired 这东西不值得送去修理了 
② (make good) 修复 xiūfù ‹damage›builders have been working seven days a week to repair the storm damage 建筑工人一周工作7天来修复暴风雨造成的破坏 
③ figurative (put right) 弥补 míbǔ ‹wrong›; 补偿 bǔcháng ‹damage›; 补救 bǔjiù ‹relations›it was too late to repair their relationship 要挽回他们的关系已经太迟了 
C.  intransitive verb formal (go) 去 qù we repaired to the tranquillity of a quiet cafe 我们去享受咖啡馆的恬静 
repair
1 
▶verb
1 the car was repaired: mend, fix (up), put/set right, restore, restore to working order, overhaul, service; informal patch up.
2 they repaired the costumes: mend, darn; informal patch up.
3 repairing relations with other countries: put/set right, mend, fix, straighten out, smooth, improve, warm up; informal patch up.
4 she sought to repair the wrong she had done: rectify, make good, right, put right, correct, make up for, make amends for, make reparation for.
▶noun
1 in need of repair: restoration, fixing (up), mending, renovation; archaic reparation.
2 an invisible repair: mend, darn.
3 in good repair: condition, working order, state, shape, fettle.
PHRASES
beyond repair the front wheel is beyond repair 
their marriage appears to be beyond repair: irreparable, irreversible, irretrievable, irremediable, irrecoverable, unfixable, past hope.
