repeat 
BrE rɪˈpiːt, AmE rəˈpit 

A.  transitive verb 
① (say again) 重复说 chóngfù shuō (write again) 重复写 chóngfù xiě could you repeat that once more? 请再说一遍好吗？ the opposition have been repeating their calls for … 反对派在反复要求… to repeat the same old thing 老调重弹 the claims are, I repeat, totally unfounded 这些要求，我再说一遍，是毫无道理的 I am not, repeat not, travelling in the same car as him! 我不，再说一遍，不和他乘同一辆车！ to repeat (that) …; 重复说… to be repeated «event, attack» 再次发生 
② (pass on) 转述 zhuǎnshù ‹gossip, secret›I'm only repeating what I've heard! 我只是把我听到的话告诉你！ the rumour has been widely repeated in the press 报界普遍转载了这一传闻 to repeat [something] to [somebody]; 将某事告诉某人 I don’t want you to repeat a word of this to anyone 这件事我希望你一个字也不要告诉别人 
③ (say verbatim) 复述 fùshù to repeat [something] word for word 一字不差地复述某事 to repeat [something] after [somebody]; 跟着某人读 ‹sentence, word›
④ (redo, rerun) 重复 chóngfù ‹mistake, experiment, pattern›they are hoping to repeat last year’s victory 他们希望像去年一样再次获胜 the Americans plan to repeat their attempt to launch a spacecraft 美国人计划再次尝试发射一部航天器 a bargain offer that cannot be repeated 机不可失的减价优惠 
⑤ Radio, Television 重播 chóngbō ‹programme, series›
⑥ School 重读 chóngdú ‹class, grade›; 重修 chóngxiū ‹course, subject›
⑦ Music 重奏 chóngzòu ‹passage, motif›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (do again) 重复 chóngfù lift and lower the right leg
20 times; repeat with the left leg 右腿提放20次，左腿重复该动作 
② especially BrE (be tasted again) 返味 fǎn wèi cucumber has a tendency to repeat 吃了黄瓜口中会有一股味儿 to repeat on [somebody]; 在某人口中留有余味 
C.  reflexive verb 
① (say the same thing) to repeat oneself 重复说过的话 chóngfù shuōguo de huà 
② (recur) to repeat itself 重复发生 chóngfù fāshēng history is repeating itself 历史正在重演 lìshǐ zhèngzài chóngyǎn 
D.  noun 
① Radio, Television 重播节目 chóngbō jiémù is it a new series? — no, a repeat 这是新的连续剧吗？── 不，是重播的 
② (of event, performance) 重演 chóngyǎn (of action, statement) 重复 chóngfù a repeat of the 1906 earthquake could kill up to 11,000 people 如果再发生1906年的地震，死亡人数可能会达到11,000人 repeat orders/attacks 续订的订单/后续攻击 
③ Music (passage) 反复段 fǎnfùduàn (mark) 反复符 fǎnfùfú 
repeat 
▶verb
1 she repeated her story: say again, restate, reiterate, go/run through again, recapitulate; informal recap.
2 children can repeat large chunks of text: recite, quote, parrot, regurgitate.
3 Steele was invited to repeat his work: do again, redo, replicate, rehash, duplicate.
4 the episodes were repeated: rebroadcast, rerun.
▶noun
1 a repeat of the previous year's final: repetition, duplication, replication, duplicate, rehash.
2 repeats of the classic sitcom: rerun, rebroadcast.
PHRASES
repeat itself history is bound to repeat itself: reoccur, recur, occur again, happen again.
