reporting 
BrE rɪˈpɔːtɪŋ, AmE rəˈpɔrdɪŋ 
nounUncountable报道 bàodào accurate/balanced/objective reporting 准确/公正/客观的报道 
report 
rəˈpôrt

▶verb
1 [reporting verb] give a spoken or written account of something that one has observed, heard, done, or investigated: [with object] : the representative reported a decline in milk and meat production 
[with clause] : police reported that the flood waters were abating 
[no object] : the teacher should report on the child's progress. 
• [no object] cover an event or subject as a journalist or a reporter: the press reported on Republican sex scandals 
[with clause] : the Egyptian news agency reported that a coup attempt had taken place 
[with object] : the paper reported a secret program by the country to build nuclear warheads. 
• (be reported) used to indicate that something has been stated, although one cannot confirm its accuracy: [with infinitive] : these hoaxers are reported to be hacking into airline frequencies to impersonate air traffic controllers 
(as adjective reported) : a reported $50,000 in debt. 
• [with object] make a formal statement or complaint about (someone or something) to the necessary authority: undisclosed illegalities are reported to the company's directors 
[with object and complement] : eight horses have been reported missing in the last month. 
• [with object] (of a legislative committee) formally announce that the committee has dealt with (a bill): the chairman shall report the bill to the House. See also report a bill out below.
2 [no object] present oneself formally as having arrived at a particular place or as ready to do something: he was given three days to say goodbye to his family and report for active duty.
3 [no object] (report to) be responsible to (a superior or supervisor): the appointee will report to the chairman of the committee. 
▶noun
1 an account given of a particular matter, especially in the form of an official document, after thorough investigation or consideration by an appointed person or body: the chairman's annual report. 
• a spoken or written description of an event or situation, especially one intended for publication or broadcast in the media: press reports suggested that the government was still using secret police to help maintain public order. 
• a teacher's written assessment of a student's work, progress, and conduct, issued at the end of a term or academic year. 
• Law a detailed formal account of a case heard in a court, giving the main points in the judgment, especially as prepared for publication. 
• a piece of information that is unsupported by firm evidence and that the speaker feels may or may not be true: reports were circulating that the chairman was about to resign. 
• dated rumor: report has it that the beetles have now virtually disappeared. 
• archaic the way in which someone or something is regarded; reputation: whatsoever things are lovely and of good report.
2 a sudden loud noise of or like an explosion or gunfire.
3 an employee who is supervised by another employee: all of his reports are twenty-somethings with no concept of proper attire for work. 
PHRASES
on report (especially of a prisoner or member of the armed forces) on a disciplinary charge.PHRASAL VERBS report back (or report something back)
1 deliver a spoken or written account of something one has been asked to do or investigate: the deadpan voice of a police officer reporting back to his superior 
every movement I made was reported back to him.
2 return to work or duty after a period of absence. report a bill out US (of a committee of Congress) return a bill to the legislative body for action.DERIVATIVES reportable 
rəˈpôrdəb(ə)l 
adjectiveORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French reporter (verb), report (noun), from Latin reportare ‘bring back,’ from re- ‘back’ + portare ‘carry.’ The sense ‘give an account’ gave rise to ‘submit a formal report,’ hence ‘inform an authority of one's presence’ ( sense
2 of the verb, mid 19th century) and ‘be accountable (to a superior)’ ( sense
3 of the verb, late 19th century).
