representative 
BrE rɛprɪˈzɛntətɪv, AmE ˌrɛprəˈzɛn(t)ədɪv 

A.  adjective 
① (typical) 典型的 diǎnxíng de ‹sample, survey›the museum has a good representative collection of local flora and fauna 这个博物馆收藏了本地区动植物群的典型样本 
② Politics 代表制的 dàibiǎozhì de ‹government, council›a representative election 代表选举 a representative assembly 代表大会 
B.  noun 
① (spokesperson) 代表 dàibiǎo union representatives 工会代表 
② Busn (agent) 销售代理 xiāoshòu dàilǐ area or local or regional representative 地区销售代理 sole representative 独家代理商 
③ Politics 议员 yìyuán 
representative 
ˌreprəˈzen(t)ədiv

▶adjective
1 typical of a class, group, or body of opinion: these courses are representative of those taken by most Harvard undergraduates. 
• containing typical examples of many or all types: a representative sample of young people in the South.
2 (of a legislative or deliberative assembly) consisting of people chosen to act and speak on behalf of a wider group. 
• (of a government or political system) based on elected representatives: free elections and representative democracy.
3 serving as a portrayal or symbol of something: the show should be more representative of how women really are. 
• (of art) representational: the bust involves a high degree of representative abstraction.
4 Philosophy relating to mental representation. 
▶noun
1 a person chosen or appointed to act or speak for another or others, in particular: 
• an agent of a firm who travels to potential clients to sell its products. 
• an employee of a travel company who looks after the needs of its vacationing clients. 
• a person chosen or elected to speak and act on behalf of others in a legislative assembly or deliberative body. 
• a delegate who attends a conference, negotiations, legal hearing, etc., so as to represent the interests of another person or group. 
• a person who takes the place of another on a ceremonial or official occasion.
2 an example of a class or group: fossil representatives of lampreys and hagfishes. DERIVATIVES representatively 
ˌreprəˈzen(t)ədivlē 
adverb. representativeness 
ˌreprəˈzen(t)ədivnəs 
noun
