represent 
BrE rɛprɪˈzɛnt, AmE ˌrɛprəˈzɛnt 
transitive verb 
① (correspond to) 相当于 xiāngdāng yú for the artist those five pictures represented a year's work 对那位画家而言，那5幅画相当于一年的工作 the new engine represents a major breakthrough in car design 这款新发动机代表了汽车设计的重大突破 
② (act on behalf of) 代表 dàibiǎo Prince Charles represented the Queen at the ceremony 查尔斯王子代表女王参加庆典 he represented Great Britain at the Olympics 他代表英国参加该届奥运会 the disaster victims could not afford a lawyer to represent them 灾难的受害者请不起律师为他们打官司 
③ (form part of) 占据 zhànjù women writers are strongly represented in the list of new fiction published today 在当今新出版小说书单中，女性作家的作品占了很大比例 
④ (depict, portray) 描绘 miáohuì the painting represents a battle at sea 这幅画表现的是一场海战 
⑤ (typify) 体现 tǐxiàn ‹political climate, values, ideals›
⑥ (symbolize) 象征 xiàngzhēng on this map a cross represents a church 在这张地图上，十字代表教堂 open frontiers represent political freedom 开放的边界象征着政治自由 
⑦ (convey in words) 表达 biǎodá words cannot adequately represent our anger 言语不足以表达我们的愤怒 
⑧ (portray on stage, film) 演绎 yǎnyì ‹character, situation›
⑨ (present) 声称 shēngchēng he represented himself as a technical expert 他声称自己是技术专家 his supporters represent him to be a great statesman 他的支持者把他说成是一个伟大的政治家 
represent 
ˌreprəˈzent

▶verb [with object]
1 be entitled or appointed to act or speak for (someone), especially in an official capacity: for purposes of litigation, an infant can and must be represented by an adult. 
• (of a competitor) participate in a sports event or other competition on behalf of (one's club, town, region, or country): Owens represented the 
U. 
S.  
• be an elected member of a legislature for (a particular constituency, party, or group): she became the first woman to represent her district. 
• (usually be represented) act as a substitute for (someone), especially on an official or ceremonial occasion: the president was represented by the secretary of state.
2 constitute; amount to: this figure represents eleven percent of the company's total sales. 
• be a specimen or example of; typify: twenty parents, picked to represent a cross section of rural life. 
• (be represented) (of a group or type of person or thing) be present or found in something, especially to a particular degree: abstraction is well represented in this exhibition.
3 depict (a particular subject) in a picture or other work of art: santos are small wooden figures representing saints. 
• [with object or infinitive] describe or depict (someone or something) as being of a certain nature; portray in a particular way: the young were consistently represented as being in need of protection. 
• (of a sign or symbol) have a particular signification; stand for: the numbers 1–10 represent the letters A–
J.  
• be a symbol or embodiment of (a particular quality or thing): the three heads of Cerberus represent the past, present, and future. 
• play the part of (someone) in a theatrical production.
4 formal state or point out (something) clearly: it was represented to him that she would be an unsuitable wife. 
• [with clause] allege; claim: the vendors have represented that such information is accurate. DERIVATIVES representability 
ˌrepriˌzentəˈbilətē 
noun. representable 
ˌreprəˈzen(t)əb(ə)l 
adjectiveORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French representer or Latin repraesentare, from re- (expressing intensive force) + praesentare ‘to present.’
