resistance 
BrE rɪˈzɪst(ə)ns, AmE rəˈzɪstəns 
nounUncountable
① (to enemy) 抵抗 dǐkàng resistance to [somebody]/[something]; 对某人/某事物的抗拒 to put up or offer resistance 进行抵抗 armed resistance 武装抵抗 a pocket of resistance 一小股抵抗力量 a policy of passive resistance 消极抵抗政策 
② (to change, innovation) 抵制 dǐzhì to meet with resistance 遇到抵制 to take the line or path of least resistance 采取阻力最小的办法 
③ (to damage, injury, infection) 抵抗力 dǐkànglì to build up a resistance to [something] 增强对某物的抵抗力 
④ Physics 电阻 diànzǔ 
⑤ the Resistance History 抵抗运动 ［二战期间法国反对德国占领军和维希政府的地下运动］dǐkàng yùndòng 
resistance 
rəˈzistəns

▶noun
1 the refusal to accept or comply with something; the attempt to prevent something by action or argument: she put up no resistance to being led away. 
• armed or violent opposition: government forces were unable to crush guerrilla-style resistance. 
• (also resistance movement) [in singular] a secret organization resisting authority, especially in an occupied country. 
• (the Resistance) the underground movement formed in France during World War II to fight the German occupying forces and the Vichy government. Also called maquis. 
• the impeding, slowing, or stopping effect exerted by one material thing on another: air resistance would need to be reduced by streamlining.
2 the ability not to be affected by something, especially adversely: some of us have a lower resistance to cold than others. 
• Medicine & Biology lack of sensitivity to a drug, insecticide, etc., especially as a result of continued exposure or genetic change.
3 the degree to which a substance or device opposes the passage of an electric current, causing energy dissipation. Ohm's law resistance (measured in ohms) is equal to the voltage divided by the current. 
• a resistor or other circuit component that opposes the passage of an electric current. 
PHRASES
the path (or line) of least resistance an option avoiding difficulty or unpleasantness; the easiest course of action.ORIGIN late Middle English: from French résistance, from late Latin resistentia, from the verb resistere ‘hold back’ (see resist) .
