retreat 
BrE rɪˈtriːt, AmE rəˈtrit 

A.  noun 
① Countable(withdrawal) 撤退 chètuì an orderly retreat 有序的撤退 an undignified retreat 不光彩的撤退 to beat a hasty retreat 仓皇撤退 
② UncountableMilitary the retreat 撤退信号 chètuì xìnhào to sound the retreat 发出撤退信号 fāchū chètuì xìnhào to beat the retreat 击鼓撤退 jī gǔ chètuì 
③ Countable(secluded place) 隐居处 yǐnjūchù a mountain retreat 深山隐居所 a country retreat 乡间幽静的住所 
④ Countable and uncountableReligion 静修期 jìngxiūqī to go into or on a retreat 去静修 to be in retreat 在静修 
B.  intransitive verb 
① Military «army, soldiers, enemy» 撤退 chètuì to retreat to a safe distance 撤退到安全的距离 
② figurative (withdraw) 隐退 yǐntuì to retreat into oneself 躲进自己的世界里 
③ (recede) «glacier, flood» 后退 hòutuì 
retreat 
rəˈtrēt

▶verb [no object] (of an army) withdraw from enemy forces as a result of their superior power or after a defeat: the French retreated in disarray. 
• move back or withdraw: it becomes so hot that the lizards retreat into the shade 
a series of trenches which filled with water when the ice retreated 
(as adjective retreating) : the sound of retreating footsteps. 
• withdraw to a quiet or secluded place: after the funeral he retreated to the shore. 
• change one's decisions, plans, or attitude, as a result of criticism from others: his proposals were clearly unreasonable and he was soon forced to retreat. 
• (of shares of stock) decline in value: [with complement] : shares retreated 32 points to 653 points. 
• [with object] Chess move (a piece) back from a forward or threatened position on the board. 
▶noun
1 an act of moving back or withdrawing: a speedy retreat 
the army was in retreat. 
• an act of changing one's decisions, plans, or attitude, especially as a result of criticism from others: the unions made a retreat from their earlier position. 
• a decline in the value of shares of stock.
2 a signal for a military force to withdraw: the bugle sounded a retreat. 
• a military musical ceremony carried out at sunset, originating in the playing of drums and bugles to tell soldiers to return to camp for the night.
3 a quiet or secluded place in which one can rest and relax: their mountain retreat in New Hampshire. 
• a period of seclusion for the purposes of prayer and meditation: the bishop is away on his annual retreat 
before his ordination he went on retreat. 
PHRASES
beat a retreat see beat. ORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French retret (noun), retraiter (verb), from Latin retrahere ‘pull back’ (see retract) .
