reverse 
BrE rɪˈvəːs, AmE rəˈvərs 
A. noun 
① Uncountable(opposite) 相反情况 xiāngfǎn qíngkuàng the reverse (of [something]); （某事的）相反情况 your behaviour was the reverse of polite 你的举止很不礼貌 the reverse is in fact the case 实际情况正相反 quite the reverse 正相反 quite the reverse seems to be true 似乎实际情况正好相反 to be rather/exactly the reverse 恰恰/截然相反 
② Uncountable(back) the reverse (of medal, coin, banknote, paper) 背面 bèimiàn (of cloth, fabric, garment) 反面 fǎnmiàn sign the cheque on the reverse 请在支票背面签字 
③ UncountableAuto 倒挡 dàodǎng in reverse; 使用倒挡的 you're/the car's in reverse 你/汽车挂的是倒挡 to go into reverse 挂倒挡 to put the car into reverse 给车挂倒挡 
④ Uncountable(opposite direction, order, way) in reverse; (in opposite direction) 向相反方向 xiàng xiāngfǎn fāngxiàng (in opposite order) 按逆序 àn nìxù (in opposite way) 相反地 xiāngfǎn de we'll have to go through the whole process in reverse 我们得把整个过程倒推一遍 the image appears in reverse in the mirror 镜像是反的 jìngxiàng shì fǎn de to go into reverse; 发生逆转 fāshēng nìzhuǎn the upward trend went into reverse, and recession loomed 上升势头发生了逆转，经济衰退迫在眉睫 to put [something] into reverse; 使某事逆转 shǐ mǒu shì nìzhuǎn to put a plan/policy into reverse 与计划/政策背道而驰 yǔ jìhuà/zhèngcè bèi dào ér chí 
⑤ Countable(defeat) 失败 shībài a heavy reverse 惨败 
⑥ Countable(setback) 挫折 cuòzhé 
B.  adjective 
① (opposite) 相反的 xiāngfǎn de ‹process, effect›to travel in the reverse direction 朝相反方向行进 in reverse order 按逆序 àn nìxù 
② (other) 反面的 fǎnmiàn de the reverse side (of medal, coin, banknote, paper) 背面 bèimiàn (of cloth, fabric, garment) 反面 fǎnmiàn 
③ (backwards) 向后的 xiànghòu de ‹somersault›
④ Auto 倒挡的 dàodǎng de to do a reverse turn 倒挡转弯 
C.  transitive verb 
① (change to opposite) 彻底转变 chèdǐ zhuǎnbiàn ‹direction›; 逆转 nìzhuǎn ‹process, trend›to reverse the economic decline 扭转经济滑坡局面 
② Law 撤销 chèxiāo ‹decision, verdict›
③ (turn opposite way around) 反转 fǎnzhuǎn ‹image›; 反穿 fǎn chuān ‹garment›writing is reversed in a mirror 字迹在镜子里的映像是反的 
④ (switch order of) 颠倒 diāndǎo you should reverse the order of these pages 你应该把这些页的顺序颠倒一下 
⑤ (swap) 对调 duìdiào ‹roles, positions›if we reverse these two wires, … 如果我们把这两条电线调换一下，… 
⑥ BrE (change to success) 扭转 niǔzhuǎn ‹defeat, result›
⑦ especially BrE Auto 使…倒行 shǐ… dào xíng ‹vehicle›he reversed the car out of the garage/around the corner 他将车倒出车库/倒过街角 
⑧ Technology 使…倒转 shǐ… dàozhuǎn ‹machine, projector›
⑨ BrE Telecommunications to reverse the charges 让受话方支付话费 
D.  intransitive verb especially BrE «driver, vehicle» 倒车 dàochē caution! this vehicle is reversing 注意！车辆倒车 to reverse into [something]; 倒车进入 ‹parking space› 倒车撞上 dàochē zhuàngshang ‹tree›to reverse across a road 倒车穿过公路 
reverse 
▶verb
1 the car reversed into a lamppost: back, back up, drive back/backward, move back/backward.
2 reverse the bottle in the ice bucket: turn upside down, turn over, upend, upturn, invert.
3 I reversed my jacket: turn inside out, turn outside in.
4 reverse your roles: swap, change, change around, exchange, interchange, switch, switch around.
5 the umpire reversed the decision: alter, change; overturn, overthrow, disallow, override, overrule, veto, revoke, repeal, rescind, annul, nullify, void, invalidate; formal abrogate.
▶adjective
1 in reverse order: backward, reversed, inverted, transposed.
2 reverse racism: inverse, reversed, opposite, converse, contrary, counter, antithetical.
▶noun
1 the reverse is the case: opposite, contrary, converse, inverse, obverse, antithesis.
2 successes and reverses. See reversal (sense 4).
3 the reverse of the page: other side, reverse side, back, underside, wrong side, verso.CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD See opposite .These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
