review 
BrE rɪˈvjuː, AmE rəˈvju 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(of situation, developments) 检查 jiǎnchá (of event, tax) 审查 shěnchá (of facts) 审核 shěnhé a policy review 政策审查 a pay or salary review 工资评审 to be/come under review «pay, salaries» 在评审中/接受评审 «policy, contract» 在审查中/接受审查 zài shěnchá zhōng/jiēshòu shěnchá to keep [something] under review 持续审查某事物 salaries are kept under constant review 对薪金情况会进行经常性审查 to be or come up for review 准备接受审查 
② Uncountable and countable(of prices) 评估 pínggū (of research) 评价 píngjià (of events) 评述 píngshù an annual/monthly etc. review (of [something]) （某事物的）年度/月度等述评 the director-general's end-of-year review 署长的年终报告 the week in review Journalism, Radio, Television 本周要闻回顾 
③ Uncountable and countableLaw 复审 fùshěn to come up for review «case» 准备复审 
④ Uncountable and countable(by critic) 评论 pínglùn a book/play/film/exhibition/music review 书评/剧评/影评/展评/乐评 a restaurant review 餐馆点评 a rave review colloquial 高度赞誉的评论 to get a good/bad etc. review 获得好评/差评等 to write a review (of [something]) 撰写（某事物的）评论 to send/submit a book for review 寄出/提交一本书供评论 
⑤ Countable(magazine) 评论杂志 pínglùn zázhì the Saturday Review 《星期六评论》 
⑥ CountableMilitary (of troops, regiment) 阅兵式 yuèbīngshì (of ships, aircraft) 检阅仪式 jiǎnyuè yíshì to hold a review (of troops, regiment) 举行阅兵式 (of ships, aircraft) 举行检阅仪式 
⑦ Countable AmE School, University 复习课 fùxíkè a review of [something]; 某科目的复习课 
B.  transitive verb 
① (assess) 检查 jiǎnchá ‹situation, progress›; 审核 shěnhé ‹facts, salaries, pension›; 审查 shěnchá ‹contract, policy›
② (study, consider) 回顾 huígù ‹subject, research, events›
③ Law 复审 fùshěn ‹judgement, sentence, case›
④ (write critique of) 评论 pínglùn ‹book, play, film, exhibition›; 品评 pǐnpíng ‹restaurant, food›to review [something] for [something]; 为某机构评论某作品 she reviews films for The Guardian 她为《卫报》写影评 to be well or favourably/badly reviewed 得到好评/劣评 
⑤ Military (inspect) 检阅 jiǎnyuè ‹troops, regiment, ships, aircraft›
⑥ AmE School, University 复习 fùxí ‹subject, lesson, notes›
C.  intransitive verb 
① (act as critic) 写评论 xiě pínglùn to review for/in [something]; 为…写/在…上发表评论 ‹magazine, newspaper›
② AmE School, University 复习功课 fùxí gōngkè to review for [something]; 为准备…而复习功课 ‹exam›
review 
rəˈvyo͞o

▶noun
1 a formal assessment or examination of something with the possibility or intention of instituting change if necessary: a comprehensive review of defense policy 
all areas of the company will come under review. 
• a critical appraisal of a book, play, movie, exhibition, etc., published in a newspaper or magazine. 
• [often in names] a periodical publication with critical articles on current events, the arts, etc. 
• Law a reconsideration of a judgment, sentence, etc., by a higher court or authority: a review of her sentence 
his case comes up for review in January. Compare with judicial review. 
• a report on or evaluation of a subject or past events: a review of recent developments in multicultural education 
the CEO's end-of-year review.
2 a ceremonial display and formal inspection of military or naval forces, typically by a sovereign, commander in chief, or high-ranking visitor. 
▶verb [with object]
1 examine or assess (something) formally with the possibility or intention of instituting change if necessary: the company's safety procedures are being reviewed. 
• write a critical appraisal of (a book, play, movie, etc.) for publication in a newspaper or magazine: I reviewed his first novel. 
• Law submit (a sentence, case, etc.) for reconsideration by a higher court or authority: the attorney general asked the court to review the sentence. 
• survey or evaluate (a subject or past events): in the next chapter we review a number of recent empirical studies.
2 (of a sovereign, commander in chief, or high-ranking visitor) make a ceremonial and formal inspection of (military or naval forces).
3 view or inspect visually for a second time or again: all slides were then reviewed by one pathologist. DERIVATIVES reviewable 
rəˈvyo͞oəb(ə)l 
adjective. reviewal 
rəˈvyo͞oəl 
nounORIGIN late Middle English (as a noun denoting a formal inspection of military or naval forces): from obsolete French reveue, from revoir ‘see again.’
