rich 
BrE rɪtʃ, AmE rɪtʃ 

A.  adjective 
① (wealthy) 富有的 fùyǒu de to grow or get rich 发财 to make [somebody] rich 让某人富起来 to strike it rich 发横财 (as) rich as Croesus 富可敌国 
② (expensive) 昂贵的 ángguì de ‹gift, clothes›; (luxurious) 奢华的 shēhuá de ‹banquet, furnishings›
③ (having abundance) 丰富的 fēngfù de to be rich in [something]; 含有大量某物 oranges are rich in vitamin C 橙子富含维生素C South Africa is rich in diamonds 南非盛产钻石 the whole area is rich with historical interest 整个地区遍布历史遗迹 
④ (abundant, fertile) 肥沃的 féiwò de ‹soil›; 富饶的 fùráo de ‹land›; 丰厚的 fēnghòu de ‹profit›a rich harvest 丰收 a rich display of talent 才华横溢 a rich supply of ideas 层出不穷的想法 a rich vein of minerals 矿藏丰富的矿脉 
⑤ Culinary 油腻的 yóunì de ‹food, cake, sauce›; 醇厚的 chúnhòu de ‹port›
⑥ (full-bodied) 浓艳的 nóngyàn de ‹colour›; 浓郁的 nóngyù de ‹smell›; 圆润的 yuánrùn de ‹sound›
⑦ (interesting) 丰富多彩的 fēngfù duōcǎi de ‹life, history›
⑧ colloquial (causing indignant amusement) 荒唐的 huāngtang de that's rich! 这太可笑了！ 
B.  noun plural the rich 富人 fù rén the idle rich 富贵闲人 fùguì xiánrén to take from the rich to give to the poor 劫富济贫 jié fù jì pín 
C.  riches noun plural (wealth) 财富 cáifù (abundant resources) 丰富的资源 fēngfù de zīyuán natural riches 大自然的财富 
rich 
riCH

▶adjective
1 having a great deal of money or assets; wealthy: most of these artists are already quite rich 
(as plural noun the rich) : every day the gap between the rich and the poor widens. 
• (of a country or region) having valuable natural resources or a successful economy. 
• of expensive materials or workmanship; demonstrating wealth: rich mahogany furniture. 
• generating wealth; valuable: not all football players enjoy rich rewards from the game.
2 plentiful; abundant: the nation’s rich and diverse wildlife. 
• having (a particular thing) in large amounts: many vegetables and fruits are rich in antioxidant vitamins 
[in combination] : a protein-rich diet. 
• (of food) containing a large amount of fat, spices, sugar, etc.: dishes with wonderfully rich sauces. 
• (of drink) full-bodied: a rich, hoppy beer. 
• (of the mixture in an internal combustion engine) containing a high proportion of fuel.
3 producing a large quantity of something: novels have always been a rich source of material for the film industry. 
• (of soil or a piece of land) having the properties necessary to produce fertile growth. 
• (of a mine or mineral deposit) yielding a large quantity or proportion of precious metal.
4 (of a color, sound, smell, etc.) pleasantly deep or strong: his rich bass voice 
basmati rice has a rich aroma.
5 interesting because full of diversity or complexity: what a full, rich life you lead!
6 informal (of a remark) causing ironic amusement or indignation: these comments are a bit rich coming from a woman with no money worries. ORIGIN Old English rīce ‘powerful, wealthy,’ of Germanic origin, related to Dutch rijk and German reich; ultimately from Celtic; reinforced in Middle English by Old French riche ‘rich, powerful.’
