ride 
BrE rʌɪd, AmE raɪd 

A.  transitive verb(past tense rode, past participle ridden) 
① (sit on animal) «rider» 骑 qí ‹horse›
② (in race) «jockey» 骑…参赛 qí… cānsài ‹horse›
③ (compete in) «rider, cyclist» 乘骑参加 chéngqí cānjiā to ride a good race 在乘骑比赛中表现出色 
④ (sit on vehicle) «cyclist, child» 骑 qí ‹bicycle, motorbike›
⑤ AmE (travel in vehicle) 搭乘 dāchéng ‹bus, train, subway›
⑥ AmE (travel in or on) 乘坐 chéngzuò ‹elevator, escalator›
⑦ (travel through) «rider, cowboy» [骑马、自行车等] 穿越 chuānyuè ‹prairie, range›
⑧ (float on) «surfer, boat» 乘 chéng ‹wave›; «bird» 翱翔在…之上 áoxiáng zài… zhī shàng ‹thermal, air current›
⑨ (absorb) «person, boxer» 躲闪 duǒshǎn ‹punch, blow›he rode the first punch easily 他轻松躲过了第一拳 
⑩ colloquial especially AmE (criticize) «person» 数落 shǔluo ‹person, employee›you're riding them too hard 你把他们批得太狠了 to ride [somebody] about [something]; 因某事物数落某人 
B.  intransitive verb(past tense rode, past participle ridden) 
① (be able to ride a horse) 骑马 qí mǎ to ride astride/side-saddle 跨骑/侧坐马背骑 
② (go horse riding) 去骑马 qù qí mǎ we ride most weekends 我们大多数周末都去骑马 to ride to hounds 骑马纵犬猎狐 «horse» 适于乘骑 shìyú chéngqí this mare rides well 这匹母马很好骑 
③ (race) (on horse) 骑马参赛 qí mǎ cānsài (on bicycle) 骑车参赛 qí chē cānsài to ride in [something]; «rider, jockey» 骑马参加某比赛 «cyclist» 骑车参加某比赛 qí chē cānjiā mǒu bǐsài have you ever ridden in the Tour de France? 你参加过环法自行车赛吗？ 
④ (travel on animal) «rider» 乘骑旅行 chéngqí lǚxíng they had been riding for hours 他们骑马好几个小时了 to ride on [something]; «rider» 骑 qí ‹horse, animal› «person» 骑牲畜行走在…上 qí shēngchù xíngzǒu zài… shang ‹path, road›she was riding on a camel 她当时正骑着一头骆驼 to ride across [something]; 骑马穿过某处 to ride at [something]; 骑马冲向某物 to ride behind [somebody]; (on same horse) 坐在某人身后共骑一匹马 (on different horse) 骑马跟在某人后面 to ride over; 骑马过去 to ride over/through [something]; 骑马穿越/穿过某处 to ride along [something]; 骑马沿某处前行 to be riding for a fall colloquial 做事莽撞 
⑤ (travel on vehicle) «cyclist, motorcyclist» 骑乘 qíchéng to ride on; «cyclist, motorcyclist» 骑在…上 ‹bicycle, motorbike› «cyclist» 骑车在…上行进 qí chē zài… shang xíngjìn ‹road, pavement›she rode all the way to London on her bike 她一路骑自行车到了伦敦 to ride along; 骑车前行 to ride along [something]; 沿某处骑车 to ride along the lane and back 沿着这条小路骑，然后返回 to ride over; 骑车过去 to ride over/through [something]; 骑车轧过某物/穿过某处 to ride behind; (on same vehicle) 坐在后座上 (on different vehicle) 骑车跟在后面 to ride behind [somebody]; (on same vehicle) 坐在某人后座上 (on different vehicle) 骑车跟着某人 
⑥ (travel in vehicle) «passenger» 搭车 dāchē to ride in or on [something]; 搭乘某交通工具 he's never ridden on a bus 他从来没坐过公共汽车 to ride along; 搭车前行 
⑦ AmE (travel in elevator, on escalator) 乘坐 chéngzuò to ride up and down the escalators 乘自动扶梯上下 
⑧ (on shoulders) 骑在肩上 qí zài jiān shang ; (on back) 骑在背上 qí zài bèi shang to ride on [something]; «baby, child» 骑在…上 ‹shoulders, back›
⑨ (float) «boat» 漂浮 piāofú ; «surfer» 踏浪 tà làng ; «bird» 飞翔 fēixiáng to ride on [something]; 乘 chéng ‹wave, wind, air current›to be riding on a wave of popularity 十分流行 to be riding high figurative «person, team» 获得成功 to let [something] ride 听任某事发展 
C.  noun 
① (journey) 短途旅程 duǎntú lǚchéng a train/taxi ride 乘火车/出租车的旅程 a bike/horse ride 骑自行车/骑马的出行 it's a five-minute ride in a taxi 乘出租车要花5分钟 it's a £3 bus ride 这段路程坐公共汽车要花3英镑 it's a short/long ride 乘车去很近/很远 to go for a ride 去乘车兜风 a ride on [something]; 骑某物的旅程 to have a ride on a horse 骑马 qí mǎ a ride in [something]; 乘某物的旅程 to have a ride in a steam train 乘蒸汽火车 to take [somebody] for a ride literal 开车带某人去兜风 figurative colloquial (cheat) 忽悠某人 hūyou mǒu rén to go along for the ride colloquial literal 一起开车出行 figurative 凑热闹 còu rènao to be in for a rough/bumpy/difficult ride 即将举步维艰/坎坷不平/困难重重 an easy ride to the Presidency 一帆风顺赢得总统选举 
② (carriage on sb.'s shoulders, back) 骑 qí to give [somebody] a ride; 让…骑 ‹person, baby›give the child a ride on your shoulders 让孩子骑在你肩膀上 
③ especially AmE (person giving lift) 让人搭车者 ràng rén dāchē zhě their ride into town dropped them off near the bridge 带他们进城的人让他们在桥附近下车了 
④ especially AmE (lift) 搭便车 dā biànchē to give [somebody] a ride 让某人搭便车 to get or hitch a ride 搭便车 dā biànchē 
⑤ AmE Transport colloquial (degree of smoothness) 旅途平稳性 lǚtú píngwěnxìng a comfortable/bumpy ride 舒适/颠簸的旅途 
⑥ (at fair or amusement park) 乘坐 chéngzuò to have a ride on a merry-go-round/roller coaster 骑旋转木马/乘坐过山车 
⑦ Horse racing 赛马 sài mǎ he's got three rides today 他今天参加了三场赛马 PHRASAL VERBS ride around, ride about intransitive verb 
① (on animal) 骑牲畜到处走 qí shēngchù dàochù zǒu 
② (in vehicle) «passenger» 乘车兜风 chéng chē dōufēng (on vehicle) «rider, cyclist» 骑车兜风 qíchē dōufēng I thought I'd ride around a bit and try out my new motorbike 我想我应该骑车转一圈，试试我的新摩托车 ride back intransitive verb 
① (on animal) 骑牲畜返回 qí shēngchù fǎnhuí 
② (in vehicle) «passenger» 乘车返回 chéng chē fǎnhuí (on vehicle) «rider, cyclist» 骑车返回 qí chē fǎnhuí he rode back to the airport in a taxi 他乘出租车返回机场 ride down transitive verb[ride somebody down, ride down somebody] 
① (hit) 骑马撞倒 qí mǎ zhuàngdǎo 
② (catch up with) «rider, cyclist, motorcyclist» 骑马赶上 qí mǎ gǎnshang ride off intransitive verb 
① (on animal) 骑牲畜离开 qí shēngchù líkāi to ride off to …; 骑牲畜去… 
② (in vehicle) «passenger» 乘车而去 chéng chē ér qù ; (on vehicle) «rider, cyclist, motorcyclist» 骑车而去 qí chē ér qù ride on transitive verb[ride on something] (depend) «money, future» 取决于 qǔjué yú he has a lot riding on this project 这个项目对他影响很大 ride out 
A.  transitive verb[ride something out, ride out something] 
① (come safely through) «ship» 安然渡过 ānrán dùguo ‹gale›to ride out the storm 安然渡过暴风雨 
② (person, company) 经受住 jīngshòu zhù ‹crisis, recession›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (on animal) «rider» 骑牲畜出行 qí shēngchù chūxíng 
② [ride out to something] (in vehicle) «passenger» 乘车出行 chéng chē chūxíng (on vehicle) «rider, cyclist, motorcyclist» 骑车出行 qí chē chūxíng ride up: intransitive verb 
① to ride up to [somebody]/[something] (approach on animal) «person, rider» 骑牲畜向某人/某处走去 qí shēngchù xiàng mǒu rén/mǒu chù zǒuqù 
② to ride up to [somebody]/[something]; (approach in vehicle) «passenger» 乘车向某人/某处行进 (approach on vehicle) «rider, cyclist, motorcyclist» 骑车向某人/某处行进 qí chē xiàng mǒu rén/mǒu chù xíngjìn 
③ to ride up over [something] (move up) «dress» 向上方某处收 xiàng shàngfāng mǒu chù shōu her skirt rode up over her knees 她的裙摆拱到了膝盖上面 
ride 
rīd

▶verb (past rode 
rōd
; past participle ridden 
ˈridn
) [with object]
1 sit on and control the movement of (an animal, especially a horse), typically as a recreation or sport: Diana went to watch him ride his horse 
[no object] : I haven't ridden much since the accident. 
• [no object] travel on a horse or other animal: we rode on horseback 
some of the officers were riding back. 
• sit on and control (a bicycle or motorcycle) for recreation or as a means of transport: he rode a Harley Davidson across the 
U. 
S.  
• [no object] (ride in/on) travel in or on (a vehicle) as a passenger: I started riding on the buses. 
• chiefly North American travel in (a vehicle) or on (a public transport system) as a passenger: she rides the bus across 42nd Street. 
• go through or over (an area) on horseback, a bicycle, etc.: ride the full length of the Ridgeway. 
• compete in (a race) on horseback or on a bicycle or motorcycle: I rode a good race. 
• [no object] (of a vehicle, animal, etc.) be of a particular character for riding on or in: the van rode as well as some cars of twice the price. 
• informal transport (someone) in a vehicle: the taxi driver who rode Kelly into the airport not long ago.
2 be carried or supported by (something with a great deal of momentum): a stream of young surfers fighting the elements to ride the waves 
figurative : the fund rode the growth boom in the 1980s. 
• [no object] project or overlap: when two lithospheric plates collide, one tends to ride over the other. 
• [no object] (of a vessel) sail or float: a large cedar barque rode at anchor 
figurative : the moon was riding high in the sky.
3 (be ridden) be full of or dominated by: you must not think him ridden with angst 
[as adjective in combination] (-ridden) : the crime-ridden streets.
4 yield to (a blow) so as to reduce its impact: Harrison drew back his jaw as if riding the blow.
5 vulgar slang have sexual intercourse with.
6 North American annoy, pester, or tease: if you don't give all the kids a chance to play, the parents ride you. 
▶noun
1 a journey made on horseback, on a bicycle or motorcycle, or in a vehicle: did you enjoy your ride? 
figurative : investors have had a bumpy ride. 
• North American a person giving someone a lift in their vehicle: their ride into town had dropped them off near the bridge. 
• US informal a motor vehicle: that green Chevy over there, that's my ride. 
• the quality of comfort or smoothness offered by a vehicle while it is being driven, as perceived by the driver or passenger: the ride is comfortable, though there is a slight roll when cornering. 
• a path, typically one through woods, for riding horses. 
• Canadian a demonstration of horse riding as an entertainment.
2 a roller coaster, merry-go-round, or other amusement ridden at a fair or amusement park.
3 vulgar slang an act of sexual intercourse.
4 (also ride cymbal) a cymbal used for keeping up a continuous rhythm. 
PHRASES
be riding for a fall see fall. for the ride for pleasure or interest, rather than any serious purpose: I don't need anything at the mall, but I'm happy to go along for the ride. let something ride take no immediate action over something. ride herd on North American keep watch over: a man to ride herd on this frenetically paced enterprise. ride high be successful: the economy will be riding high on the top of the next boom. ride the pine (or bench) North American informal (of an athlete) sit on the sidelines rather than participate in a game or event.ride the rails (or chiefly Canadian rods) informal ride on a train, especially on a freight train, and without permission. ride roughshod over carry out one's own plans or wishes with arrogant disregard for (others or their wishes): he rode roughshod over everyone else's opinions. —— rides again used to indicate that someone or something has reappeared unexpectedly and with new vigor. ride shotgun see shotgun. ride to (the) hounds chiefly British go hunting (especially fox hunting) on horseback with a pack of dogs. a rough (or easy) ride a difficult (or easy) time doing something: the president has been given a rough ride by this conservative Congress 
rebel shareholders are expected to give officials a rough ride. take someone for a ride informal deceive or cheat someone.PHRASAL VERBS ride someone down trample or overtake someone while on horseback. ride on depend on: there is a great deal of money riding on the results of these studies. ride something out come safely through something, especially a storm or a period of danger or difficulty: the fleet had ridden out the storm. ride up (of a garment) gradually work or move upward out of its proper position: her skirt had ridden up.DERIVATIVES rideable (also ridable) adjectiveORIGIN Old English rīdan, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch rijden and German reiten .
