rig
1 
BrE rɪɡ, AmE rɪɡ 

A.  noun 
① Nautical 帆装 fānzhuāng 
② (piece of equipment) 设备 shèbèi a test rig 试验台 a lighting rig 照明设备 
③ (for drilling oil) 钻井设备 zuānjǐng shèbèi an oil rig 石油钻塔 a drilling rig 钻井架 a floating rig 浮动钻井平台 
④ colloquial (clothes) 装束 zhuāngshù 
⑤ AmE (lorry) 铰接式卡车 jiǎojiēshì kǎchē 
B.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -gg-) 给…装帆具 gěi… zhuāng fānjù ‹ship›PHRASAL VERBS rig out transitive verb[rig somebody/something out], [rig out somebody/something] 
① (with clothes, equipment) 给…提供装备 gěi… tígōng zhuāngbèi the recruits had been rigged out with uniforms and equipment 新兵都已配好制服和装备 
② colloquial (in outfit) 为…提供装束 wèi… tígōng zhuāngshù he was rigged out as a fireman 他被装扮成一个消防员 rig up transitive verb[rig something up], [rig up something] 草草搭建 cǎocǎo dājiàn 
rig
1 
riɡ

▶verb (rigs, rigging, rigged) [with object] make (a sailing ship or boat) ready for sailing by providing it with sails and rigging: the catamaran will be rigged as a ketch 
[as adjective, in combination] (-rigged) : a gaff-rigged cutter. 
• assemble and adjust (the equipment of a sailboat, aircraft, etc.) to make it ready for operation: most sails are kept ready rigged. 
• set up (equipment or a device or structure), typically hastily or in makeshift fashion: he had rigged up a sort of tent 
the crew began to rig the camera equipment on a platform. 
• provide (someone) with clothes of a particular style or type: a cavalry regiment rigged out in green and gold. 
▶noun
1 the particular way in which a sailboat's masts, sails, and rigging are arranged: the yacht will emerge from the yard with her original rig. 
• the sail, mast, and boom of a sailboard.
2 an apparatus, device, or piece of equipment designed for a particular purpose: a lighting rig. 
• an oil rig or drilling rig. 
• (in CB and shortwave radio) a transmitter and receiver. 
• a particular type of construction for fishing tackle that bears the bait and hook. 
• a set of amplifiers and speakers used by a live band or a DJ in a club.
3 a person's costume, outfit, or style of dress: the rig of the Army Air Corps.
4 chiefly North American & Australian/NZ a tractor-trailer. 
• US another type of vehicle, such as a horse-drawn carriage. 
PHRASES
(in) full rig informal (wearing) fancy or ceremonial clothes.ORIGIN late 15th century (in nautical use): perhaps of Scandinavian origin: compare with Norwegian rigga ‘bind or wrap up.’ The noun dates from the early 19th century.
