right 
BrE rʌɪt, AmE raɪt 

A.  noun
① Uncountable(moral correctness) 正当 zhèngdàng he doesn't know right from wrong 他分不清是非 they both had some right on their side 他们双方都有点道理 to be in the right 有理 
② Uncountable and countable(just claim) 权利 quánlì consumer rights 消费者权益 everyone has a right to a fair trial 每个人都有权获得公正的审判 to have a or the right to do [something]; 有权做某事 you have every right to be angry 你完全有权发脾气 to be within one's rights (to do [something]); （做某事）在某人的权利范围内 you would be quite within your rights to refuse 你完全有权拒绝 in one's own right 凭本人的资格 her husband is a celebrity in his own right 她丈夫本身就是一位名人 she was already established as a poet in her own right 她自身就是位无可争议的诗人 as of/by right 作为合法权利 the property belongs to him as of/by right 这份财产依法归他所有 British by right of birth 生来就是英国人 by rights 按理 by rights half the money should be mine 按理说有一半的钱应该是我的 
③ Uncountable(side, direction) 右 yòu to look from left to right 左顾右盼 keep to the right Auto 靠右行驶 on the right of [something]; 在某物的右边 on or to the or [somebody's] right; 在右边 zài yòubian the third turning on the or your right 右边的第三个路口 on or to your right is the town hall 在你的右边是市政厅 
④ Countable(road) 右侧道路 yòucè dàolù the first/second right 右侧第一/第二条路 
⑤ Countable(turn) 右转弯 yòuzhuǎnwān to take or make a right 向右转弯 to hang a right AmE colloquial 向右拐弯 
⑥ Right UncountablePolitics (grouping, wing of party) 右派 yòupài the Right got in at the election 右派在选举中获胜 he's on the Right of the Labour Party 他是工党中的右翼成员 
⑦ Countable(in boxing) (fist, punch) 右手拳 yòushǒuquán you need to use your right more 你应该多用右手拳 he hit him with a right to the jaw 他一记右手拳打在他的下巴上 
B.  rights noun plural 
① Busn, Law 权利 quánlì he sold the rights for £2 million 他以200万英镑出售了版权 mining or mineral rights 采矿权 human rights 人权 film/translation/paperback rights 电影/翻译/平装本版权 all rights reserved 版权所有 
② (moral aspects) 正确性 zhèngquèxìng the rights and wrongs of a matter 一件事情的是非曲直 to put or set [something] to rights 纠正某事 
C.  adjective 
① (true, correct, accurate) 准确的 zhǔnquè de to get [something] right; 把某事弄准确 to get one's facts right 澄清事实真相 that's the right answer 这就是正确答案 he was right about that restaurant: the food was awful 他对那家饭店的看法是对的，那里的菜很差劲 let me get this right: you want us to pay extra? 让我把这一点弄清楚，你想要我们额外付费吗？ that's right, call me a liar! ironic 你说对了，我就是谎话精！ is that clock right? 那只钟准吗？ to put or set [somebody] right 纠正某人的看法 to put or set a clock/one's watch right 调准时钟/手表 
② (morally correct) 正当的 zhèngdàng de (legally correct) 合法的 héfǎ de to be right to do [something]; 做某事是正当的 to think it right to do [something] 认为做某事是对的 to be right in doing [something]; 做某事是对的 to do the right thing 做正当的事情 to do the right thing by [somebody] 做某人开创的正义事业 it's not right to steal 盗窃是不对的 it is only right that … 就应该… it is right and proper that … …是正当合理的 it wouldn't look right if we didn't attend 我们不参加似乎不妥 
③ (appropriate) 合适的 héshì de ‹choice, conditions›; 对头的 duìtóu de ‹decision, direction, road›to choose the right candidate 选择合适的候选人 is this the right train for Dublin? 这是去都柏林的火车吗？ to be in the right place at the right time 在适当的时间出现在适当的地点 the right moment to ask/get [somebody] to do [something] 询问/让某人做某事的恰当时间 to be right for [somebody]/[something]; 对某人/某事物是合适的 she was never right for you 她根本不适合你 the right side of a piece of material 一块布料的正面 
④ attributive (socially important) 关键的 guānjiàn de to know the right people 认识头面人物 to go to the right schools 上知名学校 to be seen in the right places 在重要场合出现 
⑤ predicative (functioning properly) 正常的 zhèngcháng de [somebody]/[something] is not quite right 某人/某事物不太正常 I don't feel quite right today 我今天感觉不太舒服 to put or set [something] right 使…恢复正常 ‹situation, machine, vehicle› 纠正 jiūzhèng ‹mistake, injustice›to put or set [somebody] right 使某人恢复正常 this medicine should put or set you right 这种药会使你康复 to see [somebody] right BrE colloquial 确保满足某人的需求 you needn't worry about money: I'll see you right 你不必担心钱，我会给你的 in one's right mind 头脑正常 no one in their right mind would wear that! 没有哪个精神正常的人会穿那种衣服！ 
⑥ attributive (not left) 右边的 yòubian de my right foot 我的右脚 the right bank 右岸 take a right turn at the intersection 在十字路口右拐 on my right hand (position) 在我的右边 
⑦ attributive BrE colloquial (complete) 完全的 wánquán de I felt a right idiot! 我感觉像个十足的傻瓜！ it's a right mess 真是一团糟 
⑧ predicative BrE colloquial (ready) 准备好的 zhǔnbèi hǎo de are you right? 你准备好了吗？ 
⑨ attributive Mathematics 直的 zhí de a right pyramid 直立棱锥 
D.  adverb 
① (exactly) 正好 zhènghǎo right in the middle of the room 恰好在房间的中央 the bullet hit him right in the forehead 子弹正好击中了他的前额 right now (immediately) 立即 lìjí (at this point in time) 此刻 do it right now! 立即去做！ he's not in the office right now 他此刻不在办公室 
② (directly) 直接地 zhíjiē de he was standing right behind her 他就站在她身后 go right home 直接回家 
③ (completely) 完全地 wánquán de a wall goes right around the garden 一面墙整个围住了花园 go right to the end of the street 一直走到街道的尽头 we're right behind you! 我们完全支持你！ 
④ (immediately) 立即 lìjí I'll be right back 我马上回来 
⑤ (correctly) 正确地 zhèngquè de I guessed right 我猜对了 if I remember right 如果我没记错的话 you did right not to speak to her 你不跟她说话是对的 right enough colloquial 毫无疑问 you heard me right enough 你肯定听到我说的话了 
⑥ (on the right) 在右边 zài yòubian (to the right) 向右 xiàng yòu to go or turn right 向右转 keep right Auto 靠右行 eyes right! Military 向右看齐！ stage right Theatre 舞台右侧 
⑦ (very) 非常 fēicháng it's right spooky in there! BrE colloquial 这里太诡异了！ he knew right well what was happening archaic 他很清楚正在发生的事 
E.  exclamation 
① (expressing agreement) 是的 shì de you may find it hurts a little at first — right 一开始你会觉得有点疼──是啊 I'll have a whisky and soda — right you are, sir 我要一杯威士忌加苏打水──好的，先生 too right BrE colloquial 一点不错 you're going, then? — too right I am! 那么你要走了吗？──对啦，我要走了！ 
② (for getting attention) 嗨 hāi right, let's get going 喂，我们开始吧 right, let's have a look 好吧，让我们看看 
③ colloquial (seeking confirmation) 对吗 duì ma it was Monday you went to see her, right? 你是在星期一去看她的，对吗？ so that's twenty of each sort, right? 那么每一类是20个，对不对？ 
④ colloquial (checking attention, understanding) 明白吗 míngbai ma and I didn't think any more of it, right, but Mum says I should see a doctor 我本来也不再想这件事了，知道吗？但妈妈说我应该去看医生 
⑤ ironic (expressing disbelief, disagreement) 是吗 shì ma I won't be late tonight — yeah, right! 我今晚不会迟到──是啊，真的吗！ 
F.  transitive verb 
① (restore to upright position) 把…扶正 bǎ… fúzhèng ‹vehicle, ship›; 使…站起来 shǐ… zhàn qilai ‹person›to right a capsized canoe 让倾覆的独木舟正过来 he righted the chair that had fallen over 他把倒下的椅子扶了起来 
② (correct) 使…恢复常态 shǐ… huīfù chángtài ‹circumstances, system›to right a situation 使局势恢复正常 
③ (rectify) 纠正 jiūzhèng ‹injustice›she was determined to right the wrongs done to her father 她决心为她父亲平反昭雪 
G.  reflexive verb 
① (regain upright position) 恢复直立 huīfù zhílì she quickly righted herself and continued along the path 她迅速站直，继续沿着小路前行 to right itself «vehicle, ship, plane» 恢复平稳 
② (return to normal) 恢复正常 huīfù zhèngcháng to right itself «situation» 恢复正常 huīfù zhèngcháng «problem» 得到纠正 dédào jiūzhèng 
right 
rīt

▶adjective
1 morally good, justified, or acceptable: I hope we're doing the right thing 
[with infinitive] : you were quite right to criticize him.
2 true or correct as a fact: I'm not sure I know the right answer 
her theories were proved right. 
• [predicative] correct in one's opinion or judgment: she was right about Tom having no money. 
• according to what is correct for a particular situation or thing: is this the right way to the cottage? 
you're not holding it the right way up. 
• the best or most suitable of a number of possible choices for a particular purpose or occasion: he was clearly the right man for the job 
I was waiting for the right moment to ask him. 
• socially fashionable or important: he was seen at all the right places. 
• [predicative] in a satisfactory, sound, or normal state or condition: that sausage doesn't smell right 
if only I could have helped put matters right.
3 on, toward, or relating to the side of a human body or of a thing that is to the east when the person or thing is facing north: my right elbow 
her right shoe 
the right edge of the field.
4 [attributive] informal, chiefly British complete; absolute (used for emphasis, typically in derogatory contexts): I felt a right idiot.
5 relating to a person or political party or grouping favoring conservative views: are you politically right, left, or center? 
▶adverb
1 to the furthest or most complete extent or degree (used for emphasis): the car spun right off the track 
I'm right out of ideas. 
• exactly; directly (used to emphasize the precise location or time of something): Harriet was standing right behind her. 
• informal immediately; without delaying or hesitating: I'll be right back. 
• [as submodifier] dialect or archaic very: it's right spooky in there!
2 correctly: he had guessed right. 
• in the required or necessary way; properly; satisfactorily: nothing's going right for me this season.
3 on or to the right side: turn right at Main Street. 
▶noun
1 that which is morally correct, just, or honorable: she doesn't understand the difference between right and wrong 
the rights and wrongs of the matter.
2 a moral or legal entitlement to have or obtain something or to act in a certain way: [with infinitive] : she had every right to be angry 
you're quite within your rights to ask for your money back 
there is no right of appeal against the decision. 
• (rights) the authority to perform, publish, film, or televise a particular work, event, etc.: they sold the paperback rights.
3 (the right) the right-hand part, side, or direction: take the first turning on the right 
(one's right) : she seated me on her right. 
• (in football or a similar sport) the right-hand half of the field when facing the opponent's goal. 
• (right) Baseball short for right field: a looping single to right. 
• the right wing of an army. 
• a right turn: he made a right in Dorchester Avenue. 
• a road or entrance on the right: take the first right over the stream. 
• (especially in the context of boxing) a person's right fist. 
• a blow given with this: the young cop swung a terrific right.
4 (often the Right) [treated as singular or plural] a grouping or political party favoring conservative views and supporting capitalist economic principles. [ see right wing .] 
▶verb [with object] restore to a normal or upright position: we righted the capsized dinghy. 
• restore to a normal or correct condition or situation: righting the economy demanded major cuts in defense spending. 
• redress or rectify (a wrong or mistaken action): she was determined to right the wrongs done to her father. 
• (usually be righted) archaic make reparation to (someone) for a wrong done to them: we'll see you righted. 
▶exclam. informal used to indicate one's agreement with a suggestion or to acknowledge a statement or order: “Barry's here.” “Oh, right” 
right you are, sir. 
• used at the end of a statement to invite agreement, approval, or confirmation: you went to see Angie on Monday, right? 
• used as a filler in speech or to introduce an utterance, exhortation, or suggestion: and I didn't think any more of it, right, but Mom said I should take him to a doctor 
right, let's have a drink. 
PHRASES
bang (or dead) to rights informal (of a criminal) with positive proof of guilt: we've got you bang to rights handling stolen property. be in the right be morally or legally justified in one's views, actions, or decisions. by rights if things had happened or been done fairly or correctly: by rights, he should not be playing next week. do right by treat (someone) fairly. in one's own right as a result of one's own claims, qualifications, or efforts, rather than an association with someone else: he was already established as a poet in his own right. (not) in one's right mind (not) sane. not right in the head informal (of a person) not completely sane. (as) of right (or by right) as a result of having a moral or legal claim or entitlement: the state will be obliged to provide health care and education as of right.on the right side of on the safe, appropriate, or desirable side of: her portrayal of his neurotic wife falls just on the right side of caricature. 
• in a position to be viewed with favor by: he hasn't always remained on the right side of the law. 
• somewhat less than (a specified age): she's on the right side of forty. put (or set) someone right
1 restore someone to health.
2 make someone understand the true facts of a situation. put (or set) something to rights restore something to its correct or normal state or condition. (as) right as rain informal (of a person) feeling completely well or healthy, typically after an illness or minor accident. right away see straight away at straight. right enough informal certainly; undeniably: your record's bad right enough. right on informal used an expression of strong support, approval, or encouragement. See also right-on. a right one British informal a silly or foolish person. right side out with the side intended to be seen or used uppermost: turn the skirt right side out. she's (or she'll be) right Australian informal that will be all right; don't worry.DERIVATIVES rightable adjective. righter noun. rightish adjectiveORIGIN Old English riht (adjective and noun), rihtan (verb), rihte (adverb), of Germanic origin; related to Latin rectus ‘ruled,’ from an Indo-European root denoting movement in a straight line.
