ring
1 
BrE rɪŋ, AmE rɪŋ 

A.  noun 
① (on finger) 戒指 jièzhi (on toe) 趾环 zhǐhuán (in nose) 鼻环 bíhuán a diamond/gold ring 钻戒/金戒指 a wedding/engagement ring 结婚/订婚戒指 to wear a ring 戴戒指 
② BrE (on bird) [鸟腿上的] 铝环 lǚhuán 
③ (on bull, pig, etc.) 鼻圈 bíquān 
④ (for attaching things) 环状物 huánzhuàngwù (for mooring) 系船环 jìchuánhuán (for curtains) 窗帘环 chuāngliánhuán (for keys) 钥匙环 yàoshihuán 
⑤ (for juggling) 杂耍圈 záshuǎquān 
⑥ (for swimming) 救生圈 jiùshēngquān 
⑦ Medicine (for sitting on) 环形坐垫 huánxíng zuòdiàn 
⑧ (mark on page) 圈 quān a ring around [something]; 围绕某物的圈 to put a ring around «person» 圈出 quānchū ‹name, ad›
⑨ (around eyes) 晕圈 yùnquān to have rings under one's eyes 眼睛下部有黑眼圈 
⑩ Botany (in tree trunk) 年轮 niánlún 
⑪ especially BrE (on electric cooker) 灶盘 zàopán (on gas cooker) 灶口 zàokǒu a three-ring hob 三炉盘炉灶 
⑫ Astronomy [围绕行星的] 光环 guānghuán Saturn's rings 土星环 
⑬ (circular arrangement) (of people) 围成一圈的人 wéichéng yī quān de rén ; (of things) 围成一圈的物 wéichéng yī quān de wù to form a ring 围成一圈 to stand in a ring (around [somebody]/[something]) （围着某人/某物）站成一圈 
⑭ (circular movement) 环形路线 huánxíng lùxiàn to run rings round or around [somebody] colloquial 远远超过某人 
⑮ (for boxing) 拳击场 quánjīchǎng ; (for wrestling) 摔跤场 shuāijiāochǎng he knocked his opponent out of the ring 他将对手摔出场外 
⑯ (boxing profession) the ring 拳击运动 quánjī yùndòng he retired from the ring at the age of 35 他35岁时退出拳坛 
⑰ (at circus) 马戏场 mǎxìchǎng (for bullfighting) 斗牛场 dòuniúchǎng (for showjumping) 马术障碍赛场 mǎshù zhàng'àisàichǎng (at dog show) 犬展场 quǎnzhǎnchǎng 
⑱ (at livestock fair) 牲畜卖场 shēngchù màichǎng 
⑲ (at racecourse) 下注区 xiàzhùqū 
⑳ (illegal group) 团伙 tuánhuǒ a spy/drugs ring 间谍网/贩毒集团 
B.  rings noun plural the rings (in gymnastics) 吊环 diàohuán 
C.  transitive verb(past tense, past participle ringed) 
① (surround) «trees, buildings» 环绕 huánrào ‹area›; «police, troops, protesters» 包围 bāowéi ‹area, building›a small valley ringed by steep cliffs 被悬崖峭壁环抱的小山谷 to ring [something] with [somebody]/[something]; 用某人/某物围住某物 
② especially BrE (circle) «person» 圈出 quānchū ‹name, ad›to ring [something] in pencil/ink; 用铅笔/墨水将某物圈出 her name was ringed in black 她的名字用黑笔圈了出来 
③ BrE (tag) 给…戴上铝环 gěi… dàishang lǚhuán ‹bird, leg›
④ Agriculture 环割…的皮 huán gē… de pí ‹tree›
ring
1 
riNG

▶noun
1 a small circular band, typically of precious metal and often set with one or more gemstones, worn on a finger as an ornament or a token of marriage, engagement, or authority. 
• a circular band of any material: fried onion rings. 
• Astronomy a thin band or disk of rock and ice particles around a planet. 
• a circular marking or pattern: black rings around her eyes. 
• short for tree ring. 
• [usually as modifier] Archaeology a circular prehistoric earthwork, typically consisting of a bank and ditch: a ring ditch.
2 an enclosed space, typically surrounded by seating for spectators, in which a sport, performance, or show takes place: a circus ring. 
• a roped enclosure for boxing or wrestling. 
• (the ring) the profession, sport, or institution of boxing.
3 a group of people or things arranged in a circle: he pointed to the ring of trees. 
• (in a ring) arranged or grouped in a circle: everyone sat in a ring, holding hands. 
• [usually with modifier] a group of people drawn together due to a shared interest or goal, especially one involving illegal or unscrupulous activity: the police had been investigating the drug ring. 
• Chemistry another term for closed chain.
4 a circular or spiral course: they were dancing energetically in a ring.
5 Mathematics a set of elements with two binary operations, addition and multiplication, the second being distributive over the first and associative. 
▶verb [with object]
1 surround (someone or something), especially for protection or containment: the courthouse was ringed with police. 
• form a line around the edge of (something circular): dark shadows ringed his eyes. 
• draw a circle around (something), especially to focus attention on it: an area of Tribeca had been ringed in red.
2 put a circular band through the nose of (a bull, pig, or other farm animal) to lead or otherwise control it. 
PHRASES
run rings around someone informal outclass or outwit someone very easily. throw one's hat in the ring see hat. DERIVATIVES ringless adjectiveORIGIN Old English hring, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch ring,German Ring, also to the noun rank1 .
