rise 
BrE rʌɪz, AmE raɪz 
A. intransitive verb(past tense rose, past participle risen) 
① (move upwards) 上升 shàngshēng the aircraft rose from the ground 飞机从地面起飞 
② (appear over horizon) «sun, moon, star» 升起 shēngqǐ to rise over or above [something]; 上升至某物上方 
③ (increase in level) «lake, sea» 上涨 shàngzhǎng the river level rose so high that the work had to be abandoned 河水上涨得太高，只好停工 
④ (slope upwards) «surface, road» 隆起 lóngqǐ 
⑤ (tower) «tower, wall, peak» 矗立 chùlì the cliff rose above us 峭壁耸立在我们上方 to rise to a height of
2 metres 高达2米 
⑥ (be built) 被建起 bèi jiànqǐ an office block rose on the site of the old temple 老寺院旧址上建起了一座办公大楼 
⑦ formal (stand up) 站起来 zhàn qilai ‘all rise’ “全体起立” to rise from; 从…上站起来 ‹chair, floor› 从…旁站起来 cóng… páng zhàn qilai ‹desk, table›to rise on tiptoe/to one's feet 踮着脚/站起身来 I rose to take my leave 我起身告辞 
⑧ formal (get out of bed) 起床 qǐchuáng rise and shine! humorous 赶快起床！ 
⑨ formal (come to life again) 复活 fùhuó to rise from the dead 起死回生 
⑩ especially BrE formal (adjourn) «committee, parliament» 闭会 bìhuì ; «court» 退庭 tuìtíng 
⑪ (increase) «amount, value, volume, rate, cost of living, pressure» 增加 zēngjiā ; «price» 上涨 shàngzhǎng ; «level, standard, temperature» 提高 tígāo ; «inflation» 加剧 jiājù to rise in; 增加 zēngjiā ‹amount, value, volume, pressure› 提高 tígāo ‹level, standard, temperature, rate, price›to rise to/above [something]; 增加到/超出某数量 
⑫ (become louder) «sound» 变响 biànxiǎng (become higher in pitch) «sound» 提高 tígāo his voice rose to a shout 他提高嗓门喊起来 his voice rose in anger 他气得嗓门大了起来 
⑬ (blow stronger) 刮得更猛 guā de gèng měng the wind continued to rise 风力继续增强 
⑭ (intensify) «hopes, anger, frustration» 变得强烈 biàn de qiángliè ; «tension» 加剧 jiājù ; «pressure» 增大 zēngdà 
⑮ (progress) «person» 更加成功 gèngjiā chénggōng to rise in the world 事业发达 to rise (from [something]) to [something]; （从某职位）升至 ‹director›to rise to fame 成名 he rose from apprentice to manager 他从学徒步步晋升为经理 she rose from nothing to become a major Hollywood star 她从一个无名小卒成了好莱坞大明星 
⑯ Culinary «dough, bread» 发酵 fājiào 
⑰ (stand on end) «hair, fur» 竖起 shùqǐ 
⑱ (appear on skin) «bump, weal» 出现 chūxiàn blisters rose on his burned hand 他烧伤的手上起了水疱 
⑲ formal (with embarrassment) «colour» 涨红 zhànghóng she could feel her colour rising 她觉得自己脸红了 
⑳ (give higher reading) «barometer, glass, mercury» 读数升高 dúshù shēnggāo ㉑ Geography (have source) 发源 fāyuán to rise in; «river, stream» 发源于 ‹mountains, area›㉒ (be produced) «cry, cheer» 发出 fāchū a great shout rose from the crowd 人群中一声大喊 ㉓ formal (rebel) 起义 qǐyì to rise against [somebody]/[something]; 奋起反抗某人/某事物 ㉔ rising colloquial (approaching) 接近 jiējìn she was thirty-nine, rising forty 她39岁，快到40了 
B.  noun 
① (increase) (in amount, number, rate, value, volume, cost of living) 增加 zēngjiā (in level, standard) 提高 tígāo (in price) 上涨 shàngzhǎng (in temperature, pressure) 升高 shēnggāo (in inflation) 加剧 jiājù a rise in [something]; 某物的增加 a rise from [something] to [something]; 从某水平到某水平的增长 to be on the rise «crime, number» 在增加 «inflation» 在加剧 zài jiājù «prices» 在上涨 zài shàngzhǎng 
② (increase in importance) (of person) 出头 chūtóu (of country, company, empire) 兴起 xīngqǐ (of doctrine, ideology) 发展 fāzhǎn the rise and fall of the Roman Empire 罗马帝国的兴衰 her rise to fame 她的成名 his rise through the ranks 他地位的上升 
③ BrE (increase in pay) 加薪 jiāxīn a rise in salary, a salary rise 加薪 jiāxīn 
④ (upward movement) 上升 shàngshēng (of water, liquid, sea) 上涨 shàngzhǎng the rise and fall of his chest 他胸膛的起伏 a rise into/to [something]; 进入/到某处的上升 we watched the balloon's slow rise into the air 我们看着气球缓缓升到了空中 the submarine's rise to the surface 潜艇浮出水面 
⑤ (hill) 小山 xiǎoshān 
⑥ (slope) 坡 pō there's a slight rise in the road here 路这处有一个缓坡 
⑦ (source) 源头 yuántóu the river has its rise in … 这条河的源头在… to give rise to 招致 ‹rumour› 引起 yǐnqǐ ‹problem, emotion›PHRASAL VERBS rise above transitive verb[rise above something] 
① (not be hindered by) 不受…的影响 bù shòu… de yǐngxiǎng ‹misfortune, problems, background›
② (be morally superior to) 摆脱 bǎituō ‹bitterness, jealousy, disagreements›
③ (be better than) 超出 chāochū ‹standard, level›rise to transitive verb[rise to something] 
① (meet successfully) 能够应付 nénggòu yìngfù ‹occasion, task›he was determined to rise to the challenge 他决心克服困难，迎接挑战 
② (react to) 对…作出反应 duì… zuòchū fǎnyìng ‹insult, provocation›he didn't rise to my teasing 我戏弄他，他并未被激怒 rise up intransitive verb 
① (move upwards) «aircraft, bird, ball, balloon» 上升 shàngshēng ; «steam, smoke» 升腾 shēngténg 
② (tower, wall) 矗立 chùlì the mountains rise up on all sides 四周山峰高耸 
③ (be produced) «shout, cry» 发出 fāchū a tremendous cheer rose up from the audience 观众当中欢呼声雷动 
④ (rebel) «people, region» 奋起反抗 fènqǐ fǎnkàng to rise up in revolt or rebellion 起来造反 
rise 
▶verb
1 the sun rose: move up/upward(s), come up, make one's/its way up, arise, ascend, climb, mount, soar. ANTONYMS fall, descend, set.
2 the mountains rising above us: loom, tower, soar, rise up, rear (up).
3 prices rose: go up, increase, soar, shoot up, surge, leap, jump, rocket, escalate, spiral. ANTONYMS drop.
4 living standards have risen: improve, get better, advance, go up, soar, shoot up. ANTONYMS worsen.
5 her voice rose: get higher, grow, increase, become louder, swell, intensify. ANTONYMS drop.
6 he rose from his chair: stand up, get to one's feet, get up, jump up, leap up; formal arise. ANTONYMS sit.
7 she rises at dawn: get up, get out of bed, rouse oneself, stir, bestir oneself, be up and about; informal rise and shine, surface; formal arise. ANTONYMS retire, go to bed.
8 the court rose at midday: adjourn, recess, be suspended, pause, take a break; informal knock off, take five. ANTONYMS resume, continue.
9 he rose through the ranks: make progress, climb, advance, get on, work one's way, be promoted.
10 she wouldn't rise to the bait: react to, respond to; take.
11 on the third day, Christ rose: come back to life, be resurrected, revive. ANTONYMS die.
12 the dough started to rise: swell, expand, enlarge, puff up.
13 the nation rose against its oppressors: rebel, revolt, mutiny, riot, take up arms. ANTONYMS kowtow.
14 the river rises in the mountains: originate in, begin in, start in, emerge in/from; issue from, spring from, flow from, emanate from.
15 her spirits rose: brighten, lift, cheer up, improve, pick up; informal buck up.
16 the ground rose gently: slope upward, go uphill, incline, climb. ANTONYMS drop away, drop.
▶noun
1 a price rise: increase, hike, leap, upsurge, upswing, climb, escalation.
2 a rise in standards: improvement, amelioration, upturn, leap.
3 her rise to power: progress, climb, promotion, elevation, aggrandizement.
4 we walked up the rise: slope, incline, hillock, hill; formal eminence.
