risk 
BrE rɪsk, AmE rɪsk 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(chance, peril) 风险 fēngxiǎn a risk of [something]; …的风险 a risk of [somebody]/[something] doing [something]; 某人/某物做某事的风险 a risk (that) …; …的风险 there's a risk of her failing or that she'll fail 她有遭遇失败的危险 is there any risk of him catching the illness? 他有染病的危险吗？ there is no risk to consumers 对消费者没有风险 to be at risk; 有危险 my job is at risk 我有失业的危险 to be at risk from starvation 面临饥饿的威胁 children at risk 处于危险中的孩子们 to put [something] at risk; 使某事物受到威胁 to put oneself/one's life/one's health at risk 使自己/生命/健康受到威胁 at one's own risk 自己负责 ‘at owner's risk’ “由所有人自行负责” he saved the child at considerable risk to himself 他冒着相当大的危险救了那个孩子 
② Countable(possible bad situation) 危险 wēixiǎn it's not worth the risk 不值得冒这个险 without risks to health 不危害健康地 they run a higher risk of cancer 他们患癌症的风险比较大 to run the risk of a strike/being arrested 冒着罢工/被捕的危险 to take risks 冒险 màoxiǎn at the risk of sounding ungrateful/showing one's ignorance 冒着显得忘恩负义/无知的危险 
③ Countable(potentially bad person) 危险人物 wēixiǎn rénwù (thing) 具有危害性的事物 jùyǒu wēihàixìng de shìwù 
④ Countable(being insured) (person) 被保险人 bèi bǎoxiǎn rén ; (company) 保险对象 bǎoxiǎn duìxiàng to be a good/bad (insurance) risk 风险小/大等的保险对象 
⑤ Countable(thing that is insured against) 险别 xiǎnbié an all-risks policy 全险保单 
⑥ Uncountable and countableFinance 风险 fēngxiǎn to spread a risk 分散风险 
B.  transitive verb 
① (endanger) «person» 使面临危险 shǐ miànlín wēixiǎn to risk one's life 冒生命危险 to risk one's health 使健康遭受威胁 to risk one's all 押上一切 to risk one's neck (doing [something]) 冒死（做某事） 
② (dare to experience) «person» 冒…的风险 mào… de fēngxiǎn ‹injury, loss, failure›to risk death 冒死 to risk doing [something]; 冒险做某事 
③ (take chance on) 大胆做 dàdǎn zuò we decided to risk it 我们决定豁出去了 let's risk it anyway 不管怎么说，我们冒险试一试吧 
risk 
risk

▶noun a situation involving exposure to danger: flouting the law was too much of a risk 
all outdoor activities carry an element of risk. 
• [in singular] the possibility that something unpleasant or unwelcome will happen: reduce the risk of heart disease 
[as modifier] : a high consumption of caffeine was suggested as a risk factor for loss of bone mass. 
• [usually in singular with adjective] a person or thing regarded as likely to turn out well or badly, as specified, in a particular context or respect: Western banks regarded Romania as a good risk. 
• [with adjective] a person or thing regarded as a threat or likely source of danger: she's a security risk 
gloss paint can burn strongly and pose a fire risk. 
• (usually risks) a possibility of harm or damage against which something is insured. 
• the possibility of financial loss: [as modifier] : project finance is essentially an exercise in risk management. 
▶verb [with object] expose (someone or something valued) to danger, harm, or loss: he risked his life to save his dog. 
• act or fail to act in such a way as to bring about the possibility of (an unpleasant or unwelcome event): unless you're dealing with pure alcohol you're risking contamination from benzene. 
• incur the chance of unfortunate consequences by engaging in (an action): he was far too intelligent to risk attempting to deceive her. 
PHRASES
at risk exposed to harm or danger: 23 million people in Africa are at risk from starvation. at one's (own) risk used to indicate that if harm befalls a person or their possessions through their actions, it is their own responsibility: they undertook the adventure at their own risk. at the risk of doing something although there is the possibility of something unpleasant resulting: at the risk of boring people to tears, I repeat the most important rule in painting. at risk to oneself (or something) with the possibility of endangering oneself or something: he visited prisons at considerable risk to his health. risk one's neck put one's life in danger. run the risk (or run risks) expose oneself to the possibility of something unpleasant occurring: she preferred not to run the risk of encountering his sister.ORIGIN mid 17th century: from French risque (noun), risquer (verb), from Italian risco ‘danger’ and rischiare ‘run into danger.’
