road 
BrE rəʊd, AmE roʊd 
noun
① Uncountable and countable(between towns) 道路 dàolù the road to Leeds, the Leeds road 通往利兹的公路 the road from Edinburgh to Glasgow 从爱丁堡到格拉斯哥的公路 the road back to [something]; 回某处的路 are we on the right road for Oxford? 我们走的这条路是去牛津的吗？ the road north/inland 通往北方/内地的路 the road home 回家的路 to follow the road ahead 沿着前面的路走 a country road 乡间小路 road safety/condition 道路安全/路况 by road 由公路 transported by road 由公路运输的 off the road 不能行驶 on the road (on tour) 在途中 (drivable) 可行驶 (homeless) 在流浪 I've been on the road all night 我整晚都在旅行 after three hours on the road 旅行3小时后 to go on the road with the show 去巡回演出 to be/get back on the road «car» 重新上路 let's get the show on the road! colloquial (start an activity) 我们开始吧！ (start a journey) 我们上路吧！ to hit the road colloquial 出发 to take to the road 出发 one for the road colloquial 临行前的最后一杯酒 the road to hell is paved with good intentions proverb 光想不练是不够的 
② Countable(in towns) 街道 jiēdào across the road 在街对面 at the top or end of the road 在街的尽头 along or down the road 沿着街 it's just down the road 它就在这条街前面不远处 my friend from down the road 住在这条街那边的我的朋友 35 York Road or Rd 约克路35号 
③ Countablefigurative (way) 途径 tújìng a difficult road to follow 艰难的途径 to be on the road to success/disaster 走向成功/灾难 we think we're on the right road 我们认为我们的路子是对的 we don't want to go down that road 我们不想采用那种方法 (further) down or along the road 在将来 further down or along the road (to [something]) 在（成就某事的）道路上迈进一步 today the country is much further along the road to democracy 如今该国在民主的道路上取得了很大进展 
④ Countable BrE colloquial (way) 路线 lùxiàn to be in the or [somebody's] road 挡某人的道 to get out of the or [somebody's] road 给某人让路 just keep out of the road and you won't get into trouble 你只要不碍事就不会有麻烦 
⑤ CountableHistory (trade route) 贸易路线 màoyì lùxiàn the Silk Road 丝绸之路 
⑥ Countableusually plural Nautical 近岸锚地 jìn àn máodì the deeper waters of Boston Roads 波士顿近岸锚地中较深的水域 
road 
rōd

▶noun
1 a wide way leading from one place to another, especially one with a specially prepared surface that vehicles can use. 
• the part of a road intended for vehicles, especially in contrast to a shoulder or sidewalk. 
• [with modifier] historical a regular trade route for a particular commodity: the Silk Road across Asia to the West. 
• Mining an underground passage or gallery in a mine. 
• North American a railroad. 
• British a railroad track, especially as clear (or otherwise) for a train to proceed: they waited for a clear road at Hellifield Junction.
2 a series of events or a course of action that will lead to a particular outcome: he's well on the road to recovery. 
• a particular course or direction taken or followed: the low road of apathy and alienation.
3 (usually roads) (often in place names) another term for roadstead: Boston Roads. 
PHRASES
by road in or on a road vehicle. down the road informal, chiefly North American in the future. the end of the road see end. hit the road see hit. in the (or one's) road informal in someone's way. one for the road informal a final drink, especially an alcoholic one, before leaving for home. on the road
1 on a long journey or series of journeys, especially as part of one's job as a sales representative or a performer. 
• (of a person) without a permanent home and moving from place to place.
2 (of a car) in use; able to be driven. 
• (often on-the-road) (of or with reference to the price of a motor vehicle) including the cost of license plates, tax, etc., so the vehicle is fully ready for use on public roads: we found on-the-road prices from 5,780 to 6,151 dollars. out of the (or one's) road informal out of someone's way. a road to nowhere see nowhere. take to the road (or take the road) set out on a journey or series of journeys.DERIVATIVES roadless adjectiveORIGIN Old English rād ‘journey on horseback,’ ‘foray’; of Germanic origin; related to the verb ride .
