roar 
BrE rɔː, AmE rɔr 

A.  noun 
① (of large animal) 咆哮 páoxiào to give a roar 嗥叫 
② (of person) 叫喊 jiàohǎn he gave a roar of rage 他怒吼了一声 
③ (of amusement) 大笑声 dàxiào shēng a roar of laughter 一阵哈哈大笑 
④ (of applause) 鼓掌声 gǔzhǎng shēng the audience gave a roar of applause 观众报以雷鸣般的掌声 
⑤ (of machine, traffic) 轰鸣声 hōngmíng shēng 
⑥ (of water, wind) 呼啸声 hūxiào shēng the wind howled above the roar of the sea 风在咆哮的大海上呼号 the roar of the waterfall deafened them 瀑布的轰鸣声让他们什么也听不见 
⑦ (of flames) 呼呼声 hūhū shēng the roar of the forest fire was terrifying 熊熊燃烧的林火令人恐惧 
B.  transitive verb 
① (shout) 大喊 dàhǎn to roar one's approval 大声叫好 ‘quiet!’he roared “安静！”他吼道 
② (rev up) 使…快速运转 shǐ… kuàisù yùnzhuǎn ‹engine›
C.  intransitive verb 
① (howl) «lion, bull» 吼叫 hǒujiào to roar with fury 怒吼 
② (bellow) «person» 大喊 dàhǎn to roar at [somebody]; 冲某人喊叫 
③ (shout together) «crowd» 喧哗 xuānhuá to roar with pain/rage 痛苦/愤怒地大喊大叫 
④ (laugh) 放声大笑 fàngshēng dàxiào to roar in amusement 开心地大笑 to roar with laughter 哈哈大笑 
⑤ (rumble) «machine, traffic» 轰鸣 hōngmíng the car roared into life 汽车轰鸣着发动起来 
⑥ (move noisily) 呼啸而行 hūxiào ér xíng to roar past [somebody]/[something]; 从某人/某物旁呼啸而过 to roar along; 轰鸣着前行 the car roared away 汽车呼啸而去 to roar down/up the street; 轰鸣着沿街开去/开来 
⑦ (make long, loud, deep sound) «wind, sea» 呼啸 hūxiào ; «waterfall» 轰鸣 hōngmíng ; «fire, flames» 熊熊燃烧 xióngxióng ránshāo PHRASAL VERB roar out transitive verb[roar something out, roar out something] 大声喊出 dàshēng hǎnchū ‹command›the fans roared out their approval 粉丝们大声叫好 
roar 
rôr

▶noun a full, deep, prolonged cry uttered by a lion or other large wild animal. 
• a loud and deep sound uttered by a person or crowd, generally as an expression of pain, anger, or approval: he gave a roar of rage. 
• a loud outburst of laughter. 
• a loud, prolonged sound made by something inanimate, such as a natural force, an engine, or traffic: the roar of the sea. 
▶verb
1 [no object] (of a lion or other large wild animal) utter a full, deep, prolonged cry. 
• (of something inanimate) make a loud, deep, prolonged sound: a huge fire roared in the grate. 
• (of a person or crowd) utter a loud, deep, prolonged sound, typically because of anger, pain, or excitement: Manny roared with rage. 
• [with object] utter or express in a loud tone: the crowd roared its approval 
[with direct speech] : “Get out of my way!” he roared. 
• laugh loudly: Shirley roared in amusement. 
• (of a horse) make a loud noise in breathing as a symptom of disease of the larynx.
2 [no object] (especially of a vehicle) move at high speed making a loud prolonged sound: a car roared past. 
• proceed, act, or happen fast and decisively or conspicuously: the Clippers came roaring back to outscore the Nets. DERIVATIVES roarer nounORIGIN Old English rārian (verb), imitative of a deep prolonged cry; related to German röhren. The noun dates from late Middle English.
