romance 
BrE rə(ʊ)ˈmans, ˈrəʊmans, AmE roʊˈmæns, ˈroʊˌmæns 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(romantic quality) 浪漫氛围 làngmàn fēnwéi (romantic feeling) 浪漫情调 làngmàn qíngdiào an air of romance (about [somebody]/[something]) （某人/某物的）浪漫气息 
② Countable(love affair) 风流韵事 fēngliú yùnshì to have a romance 经历一段浪漫的爱情 a holiday BrE or vacation AmE romance 假日里的风流韵事 a whirlwind romance 旋风式恋爱 
③ Uncountable(genre of fiction) 传奇文学 chuánqí wénxué medieval/historical romance 中世纪的传奇文学/历史传奇 
④ Countable(story) 传奇故事 chuánqí gùshi I'm fond of historical romances 我喜欢历史传奇故事 
⑤ Countable(love story) 爱情故事 àiqíng gùshi 
⑥ Uncountable(exaggeration) 夸张的描述 kuāzhāng de miáoshù 
⑦ CountableMusic 浪漫曲 làngmànqǔ 
B.  transitive verb 与…谈情说爱 yǔ… tán qíng shuō ài 
C.  intransitive verb 渲染 xuànrǎn to romance about [something]; 添枝加叶地谈论某事物 
romance 
rōˈmans ˈrōˌmans

▶noun
1 a feeling of excitement and mystery associated with love: in search of romance. 
• love, especially when sentimental or idealized: he asked her for a date and romance blossomed. 
• an exciting, enjoyable love affair, especially one that is not serious or long-lasting: a summer romance. 
• a book or movie dealing with love in a sentimental or idealized way: light historical romances. 
• a genre of fiction dealing with love in an idealized way: wartime passion from the master of romance.
2 a quality or feeling of mystery, excitement, and remoteness from everyday life: the beauty and romance of the night. 
• wild exaggeration; picturesque falsehood: she slammed the claims as “pure romance, complete fiction.” 
• a work of fiction dealing with events remote from real life.
3 a medieval tale dealing with a hero of chivalry, of the kind common in the Romance languages: the Arthurian romances. 
• the literary genre of romance.
4 Music a short informal piece. 
▶verb [with object]
1 court; woo: the wealthy estate owner romanced her. 
• informal seek the attention or patronage of (someone), especially by use of flattery: he is being romanced by the big boys in New York. 
• [no object] engage in a love affair: we start romancing.
2 another term for romanticize: to a certain degree I am romancing the past. ORIGIN Middle English: from Romance, originally denoting a composition in the vernacular as opposed to works in Latin. Early use denoted vernacular verse on the theme of chivalry; the sense ‘genre centered on romantic love’ dates from the mid 17th century.
