romantic 
BrE rə(ʊ)ˈmantɪk, AmE roʊˈmæn(t)ɪk 

A.  adjective 
① (appealing to emotions) 浪漫的 làngmàn de ‹landscape, adventure, tale›; 夸张的 kuāzhāng de ‹nonsense›to have romantic notions about doing [something] 对做某事抱有浪漫的想法 the romantic lead 爱情剧中的主角 to give a romantic account of [something] 添油加醋地叙述某事 
② (relating to love) 情爱的 qíng'ài de ‹complications›to form a romantic attachment with [somebody] 对某人产生绵绵情意 to have a romantic assignation/involvement with [somebody] 与某人有一个情意绵绵的幽会/与某人谈情说爱 
③ (inclined to romance) 多情的 duōqíng de ‹person, character, nature›
④ Romantic (relating to romanticism) 浪漫主义的 làngmàn zhǔyì de ‹poetry, artist, period›
B.  noun 
① (person) 浪漫的人 làngmàn de rén to be a hopeless romantic 是一个无可救药的浪漫的人 
② Romantic (artist, writer, musician) 浪漫主义艺术家 làngmàn zhǔyì yìshùjiā 
romantic 
▶adjective
1 he's so romantic: loving, amorous, passionate, tender, affectionate; informal lovey-dovey.
2 the book was a bit too romantic for my tastes: sentimental, mawkish, saccharine, syrupy; informal mushy, schmaltzy, gooey, treacly, cheesy, corny, sappy, soppy, cornball. ANTONYMS unsentimental, gritty.
3 a romantic setting: idyllic, picturesque, fairy-tale; beautiful, lovely, charming, pretty.
4 romantic notions of life in rural communities: idealistic, idealized, romanticized, unrealistic, fanciful, impractical; head-in-the-clouds, starry-eyed, optimistic, hopeful, visionary, utopian, fairy-tale. ANTONYMS practical, realistic.
▶noun an incurable romantic: idealist, sentimentalist, romanticist; dreamer, visionary, Utopian, Don Quixote, fantasist, fantasizer; archaic fantast. ANTONYMS realist.REFLECTIONS David Lehmanromantic, romance Play Ella Fitzgerald's rendition of “Isn't It Romantic?” (the Rodgers and Hart standard) and get in the mood. For what? For romance—the romance of the words romance and romantic. Romance is a subgenre of fiction, a type of comic book, the element of doo-wop rock and roll. But the romantic is also the province of medieval chivalry, opera and musical comedy, jazz, swing, slow dancing, and moonlight. The dance of the sexes rhymes with romance, and when Freud wants to convey that there are ambiguous erotic edges to the relationships we have with our fathers and mothers, our sisters and brothers, he uses the phrase “family romance.” Joseph Conrad speaks of the “romance of illusions,” which is almost a redundancy. Romance is sex without the dirt, Eros without disease and old age. Romance is poetry; marriage and its aftermath is prose (the novel). Romance is one half of the truth, of which death is the other. Who among poets would not want to be a romantic —or even better a Romantic —poet? No matter how well you know that Keats, Shelley, Byron, and Coleridge were Romantic poets in a whole other and more complicated sense, a part of you persists in seeing in the sickly and sensual Keats, the dashing Byron, the political maverick Shelley, and the opium-tripping Coleridge, a quality of heroism that seems hot with the passion of youth—the quality of romance.Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
