root 
BrE ruːt, AmE rut 

A.  noun 
① (of plant) 根 gēn to take root «plant» 生根 shēnggēn «idea, feeling» 深入人心 shēn rù rénxīn to pull [something] up or out by the roots; 将某物连根拔起 
② (of hair, tooth) 根（部） gēn(bù) electrolysis kills off the hair at the root 电解脱毛可以杀死毛体根部 
③ figurative (of problem, matter) 起因 qǐyīn (of unhappiness, evil) 根源 gēnyuán to get at or to the root(s) of the problem 找到问题的根源 the root of all evil 万恶之源 
④ Linguistics 词根 cígēn 
⑤ Mathematics 根 gēn square/cube root 平方根/立方根 
B.  roots noun plural (origins) [家族、种族、文化等的] 根 gēn to get back to one's roots 回到故乡 to have roots 有根基 to put down new roots 在新地方扎根 
C.  transitive verb 
① Botany 使…生根 shǐ… shēnggēn ‹cuttings, plants›
② to be/stand rooted to the spot or ground figurative (unmoving) 在/站在原地一动不动 
③ (establish deeply) 使…根深蒂固 shǐ… gēn shēn dì gù ‹feelings, emotions›to be rooted in [something] 深深扎根于某事物 a story firmly rooted in reality 牢固建立在现实基础上的故事 to have a deeply rooted dislike of [something] 对某事物怀有根深蒂固的厌恶 
D.  intransitive verb 
① Botany 生根 shēnggēn 
② (search) 翻找 fānzhǎo he opened a drawer and rooted through it 他打开抽屉翻了个遍 
③ (turn up the ground) «animal» 用嘴拱土觅食 yòng zuǐ gǒng tǔ mì shí to root for [something]; 用嘴拱土寻找某物 PHRASAL VERBS root around, root about intransitive verb 搜寻 sōuxún to root around or about for [something] 四处搜寻某物 root for transitive verb[root for somebody/something] colloquial (cheer) 为…加油 wèi… jiāyóu good luck in the exams; we're all rooting for you! 祝你考试有好运，我们都为你加油鼓劲！ root out transitive verb[root out something], [rootsomething out] 根除 gēnchú ‹corruption, dissent, dissenter›root up transitive verb[root up something, root something up] 连根拔起 liángēn báqǐ ‹plant, bush›
root 
▶noun
1 a plant's roots: rootstock, tuber, rootlet; Botany rhizome, radicle.
2 the root of the problem: source, origin, germ, beginning(s), genesis; cause, reason, basis, foundation, bottom, seat; core, heart, nub, essence; informal ground zero.
3 (roots) he rejected his roots: origins, beginnings, family, ancestors, predecessors, heritage; birthplace, homeland.
▶verb
1 has the shoot rooted? take root, grow roots, establish, strike, take.
2 root the cuttings: plant, bed out, sow.
3 he rooted around in the cupboard: rummage, hunt, search, rifle, delve, forage, dig, nose, poke.
PHRASES
put down roots they married and put down roots in Yemen: settle, establish oneself, make one's home, set up home. root and branch
1 the company's accounting department should be eradicated, root and branch: completely, entirely, wholly, totally, thoroughly.
2 a root-and-branch reform: complete, total, thorough, radical. root for informal Mollie roots for the Broncos: cheer, cheer on, applaud, support, encourage. root out
1 the hedge was rooted out: uproot, deracinate, pull up, grub out.
2 root out corruption: eradicate, eliminate, weed out, destroy, wipe out, stamp out, extirpate, abolish, end, put a stop to.
3 he rooted out a dark secret: unearth, dig up, bring to light, uncover, discover, dredge up, ferret out, expose. take root
1 leave the plants to take root: germinate, sprout, establish, strike, take.
2 Christianity took root in Persia: become established, take hold; develop, thrive, flourish.
