rope 
BrE rəʊp, AmE roʊp 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(thick string) 绳索 shéngsuǒ a piece of rope 一根绳子 to give [somebody] plenty of or enough rope figurative 放任某人为所欲为 give him enough rope and he'll hang himself 让他由着性子来，他就会自取灭亡 to be at the end of one's rope AmE colloquial 计穷力尽 
② Countable(set) 一串 yī chuàn a rope of pearls/onions 一串珍珠/洋葱 
③ Uncountable(hanging) the rope 绞刑 jiǎoxíng to bring back the rope 恢复绞刑 huīfù jiǎoxíng 
B.  ropes noun plural 
① Sport the ropes ［拳击或摔跤场四周的] 围绳 on the ropes (in boxing) 被逼到围绳上 figurative colloquial (in trouble) 濒于失败 bīnyú shībài behind its apparent success the bank was actually on the ropes 这家银行表面看起来很成功，实际上濒临破产 
② colloquial (established procedures) the ropes 既定程序 jìdìng chéngxù to know the ropes 知道办事规矩 zhīdào bànshì guīju to show [somebody] the ropes 向某人演示操作程序 xiàng mǒu rén yǎnshì cāozuò chéngxù 
C.  transitive verb 
① (attach) 用绳子将…捆起 yòng shéngzi jiāng… kǔnqǐ ‹person, animal›a roped party of climbers 用绳索串系起来的登山队 
② (make secure) 用绳子系牢 yòng shéngzi jìláo ‹trunk›
③ especially AmE (lasso) 用套索套 yòng tàosuǒ tào ‹cattle, horse›PHRASAL VERBS rope in transitive verb[rope somebody in, rope in somebody] colloquial 说服…加入 shuōfú… jiārù rope [somebody] in to do [something], rope in [somebody] to do [something]; 劝说某人做某事 rope [somebody] into doing [something]; 说服某人做某事 to get roped in; 被说动 rope off transitive verb[rope off something, rope something off] 用绳子围起 yòng shéngzi wéiqǐ ‹area, scene, street›
rope 
rōp

▶noun
1 a length of strong cord made by twisting together strands of natural fibers such as hemp or artificial fibers such as polypropylene. 
• North American a lasso. 
• (the rope) used in reference to execution by hanging: executions by the rope continued well into the twentieth century. 
• (the ropes) the ropes enclosing a boxing or wrestling ring.
2 a quantity of roughly spherical objects such as onions or pearls strung together: a rope of pearls.
3 (the ropes) informal the established procedures in an organization or area of activity: I want you to show her the ropes 
new boys were expected to learn the ropes from the old hands. [mid 19th century: with reference to ropes used in sailing.] 
▶verb [with object] catch, fasten, or secure with rope: the calves must be roped and led out of the stockade 
the climbers were all roped together. 
• (rope someone in/into) persuade someone to take part in (an activity): anyone who could play an instrument or sing in tune was roped in. 
• (rope something off) enclose or separate an area with a rope or tape: police roped off the area of the find. 
• [no object] Climbing (of a party of climbers) connect each other together with a rope: we stopped at the foot of the Cavales Ridge and roped up. 
• [no object] (rope down/up) Climbing climb down or up using a rope: the party had been roping down a hanging glacier. 
PHRASES
the end of one's rope see end. give a man enough rope and he will hang himself proverb given enough freedom of action a person will bring about their own downfall. on the rope Climbing roped together: the technique of moving together on the rope. on the ropes Boxing forced against the ropes by the opponent's attack. 
• in state of near collapse or defeat: behind the apparent success the company was on the ropes.ORIGIN Old English rāp, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch reep and German Reif .
