rough 
BrE rʌf, AmE rəf 

A.  adjective 
① (not smooth) 粗糙的 cūcāo de ‹skin, hands, material›; 凹凸不平的 āotū bùpíng de ‹rock, surface›; 参差不齐的 cēncī bùqí de ‹edge›; 高低不平的 gāodī bùpíng de ‹grass, country›; 崎岖的 qíqū de ‹road, track›rough edges (of character) 瑕疵 
② (approximate) 粗略的 cūlüè de ‹sketch, description›; 不精确的 bù jīngquè de ‹translation, calculation›; 大概的 dàgài de ‹figure, estimate›can you give me a rough idea of the cost? 请告诉我费用大致是多少好吗？ 
③ (violent) 粗暴的 cūbào de ‹person, behaviour›; 粗野的 cūyě de ‹game, sport›to be rough with [somebody]/[something] 粗暴对待某人/某物 to get rough (with [somebody]) （对某人）动粗 
④ (containing violent people) 充斥暴力的 chōngchì bàolì de ‹area, bar›
⑤ (stormy) 恶劣的 èliè de ‹weather, conditions›
⑥ (with large waves) 波涛汹涌的 bōtāo xiōngyǒng de ‹sea, lake›
⑦ (uncomfortable) 颠簸的 diānbǒ de ‹landing, ride›; 有风浪的 yǒu fēnglàng de ‹crossing›
⑧ (plain, basic) 简陋的 jiǎnlòu de ‹furniture, house›
⑨ (makeshift) 临时拼凑的 línshí pīncòu de ‹dwelling, shelter›
⑩ (unsophisticated) 质朴的 zhìpǔ de ‹person, manners, appearance›
⑪ (harsh-sounding) 刺耳的 cì'ěr de ‹voice, sound›
⑫ (unpleasant-tasting) 味道差的 wèidao chà de ‹wine›; 涩的 sè de ‹taste›
⑬ (difficult) 艰难的 jiānnán de ‹life, period›to give [somebody] a rough ride 使某人吃苦头 he's had a rough deal colloquial 他受到了不公平的待遇 to be rough on [somebody]; (difficult) 对某人来说很困难 (unfair) 对某人来说不公平 that was rough luck 真倒霉 
⑭ (severe, strict) 粗暴严厉的 cūbào yánlì de to be rough on [somebody]; 粗暴严厉地对待某人 
⑮ predicative colloquial (unwell) 不适的 bùshì de to feel/look rough 感到/好像不舒服 
B.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(draft) 草稿 cǎogǎo a rough for [something]; (design) 某物的草稿 (drawing) 某物的草图 to write [something] out in rough 给某物打草稿 
② Uncountable(in golf) 深草区 shēncǎoqū 
③ to take the rough with the smooth 既能享乐也能吃苦 
C.  adverb 
① BrE (outdoors) 在街头 zài jiētóu to live or sleep rough 露宿街头 
② colloquial (violently) 粗暴地 cūbào de ‹fight, treat›; 粗野地 cūyě de ‹play›to cut up rough BrE colloquial 大发脾气 
D.  transitive verb colloquial to rough it 暂时过艰苦生活 zànshí guò jiānkǔ shēnghuó PHRASAL VERBS rough in transitive verb[rough in something, rough something in] 
① (sketch) 勾画出…的轮廓 gōuhuà chū… de lúnkuò ‹scene, object, figures›
② (estimate) 估计 gūjì ‹details, figures›rough out transitive verb[rough something out, rough out something] 草拟 cǎonǐ ‹report, plan›; 粗略勾画 cūlüè gōuhuà ‹drawing›; 简略写出 jiǎnlüè xiěchū ‹idea›rough up transitive verb[rough somebody up, rough up somebody] colloquial 殴打 ōudǎ 
rough 
rəf

▶adjective
1 having an uneven or irregular surface; not smooth or level: take a square of sandpaper, rough side out. 
• (of ground or terrain) having many bumps or other obstacles; difficult to cross: they had to carry the victim across the rough, stony ground. 
• not soft to the touch: her skin felt dry and rough. 
• (of a voice) coming out with difficulty so as to sound harsh and rasping: his voice was rough with barely suppressed fury. 
• (of wine or another alcoholic drink) sharp or harsh in taste. 
• denoting the face of a tennis or squash racket from which the loops formed in the stringing process project (used as a call when the racket is spun to decide the right to serve first or to choose ends). The opposite of smooth.
2 (of a person or their behavior) not gentle; violent or boisterous: strollers should be capable of withstanding rough treatment. 
• (of an area or occasion) characterized by or notorious for the occurrence of violent behavior: the workmen hate going to the rough areas of town. 
• (of the sea) having large and dangerous waves: the lifeboat crew braved rough seas to rescue a couple. 
• (of weather) wild and stormy. 
• informal difficult and unpleasant; hard; severe: the teachers gave me a rough time because my image didn't fit 
the first day of a job is rough on everyone. 
• [as complement] informal unwell: the altitude had hit her and she was feeling rough. 
• [as complement] informal depressed and anxious: when he's feeling rough, he comes and talks things over to calm him down.
3 not finished tidily or decoratively; plain and basic: the customers sat at rough wooden tables. 
• put together without the proper materials or skill; makeshift: he had one arm in a rough sling. 
• (of hair or fur) not smooth; coarse: the creature's body was covered with rough hair. 
• lacking sophistication or refinement: she took care of him in her rough, kindly way. 
• not worked out or correct in every detail: he had a rough draft of his new novel. 
▶adverb informal in a manner that lacks gentleness; harshly or violently: treat ’em rough but treat ’em fair. 
▶noun
1 chiefly British a disreputable and violent person.
2 (on a golf course) longer grass around the fairway and the green: his second shot was in the rough on the left.
3 a preliminary sketch for a design: I did a rough to work out the scale of the lettering.
4 an uncut precious stone. 
▶verb [with object]
1 work or shape (something) in a rough, preliminary fashion: flat surfaces of wood are roughed down. 
• (rough something out) produce a preliminary and unfinished sketch or version of something: the engineer roughed out a diagram on his notepad. 
• make uneven or ruffled: rough up the icing with a palette knife 
the water was roughed by the wind.
2 (rough it) live in discomfort with only basic necessities: she had had to rough it alone in a dive. 
PHRASES
bit of rough British informal a male sexual partner whose toughness or lack of sophistication is a source of attraction. in the rough
1 in a natural state; without decoration or other treatment: a diamond in the rough.
2 in difficulties: even before the recession hit, the project was in the rough. rough and ready crude but effective: a rough-and-ready estimating method. 
• (of a person or place) unsophisticated or unrefined. rough around the edges having a few imperfections: until we clean up and lay down the new carpet, it's going to look a little rough around the edges. 
• not refined: Donnie is a bit rough around the edges, but she loves him. the rough edge (or side) of one's tongue a scolding: you two stop quarreling or you'll get the rough edge of my tongue. rough edges small imperfections in someone or something that is basically satisfactory. rough justice 
ˌrəf ˈjəstəs 
treatment that is not scrupulously fair or in accordance with the law. rough passage a journey over rough sea. 
• a difficult process of achieving something or of becoming successful: the rough passage faced by the legislation. a rough ride see ride. rough stuff boisterous or violent behavior. sleep rough British sleep in uncomfortable conditions, typically outdoors. take the rough with the smooth accept the difficult or unpleasant aspects of life as well as the good.PHRASAL VERBS rough someone up informal beat someone up.DERIVATIVES roughish adjectiveORIGIN Old English rūh; related to Dutch ruw and German rauh .
