round 
BrE raʊnd, AmE raʊnd 

A.  adjective 
① (circular) 圆形的 yuánxíng de these glasses suit people with round faces 这种眼镜适合圆脸的人 a round-necked T-shirt 一件圆领T恤衫 
② (spherical) 球形的 qiúxíng de the earth is round 地球是圆的 
③ (hemispherical) 半球形的 bànqiúxíng de the round green hills 圆圆的绿山岗 
④ (curved) 弧形的 húxíng de (containing curves) 圆体的 yuántǐ de ‹handwriting›the cloisters have round arches 修道院有圆弧形的拱门 he writes a neat round hand 他写得一手工整的圆体字 
⑤ (bent forwards) 前曲的 qiánqū de 
⑥ (plump) 丰满的 fēngmǎn de she had round pink cheeks 她的面颊粉嘟嘟的 
⑦ attributive (in convenient units) 整数的 zhěngshù de a round figure or number 整数 in round figures 以整数 
⑧ attributive (complete) 十足的 shízú de a round dozen 整整一打 the batsman made a round 100 击球手整整得了100分 
⑨ attributive (considerable) 可观的 kěguān de a nice round sum 一笔相当大的金额 
B.  prepositionespecially BrE 
① (on all sides of, surrounding, in circumference) 围绕 wéirào they were all sitting round the table 他们都围坐在桌边 the fence round the garden 环绕着花园的栅栏 she looked round her 她环顾四周 to put one's arm round [somebody] 拥抱某人 what do you measure round the waist? 你的腰围是多少？ 
② (past obstacle or point) 绕过 ràoguo the baker's is just round the corner 面包店就在那个拐角处 there's one way round this difficulty 有一种避开这个难题的办法 they've found a way to get round the new law 他们找到了一个规避新法律的方法 
③ (taking in whole area) 在…各处 zài… gè chù to go round the shops 逛商店 she looked all round the room 她看遍了房间里的每一个角落 we've been travelling round France 我们一直在周游法国 to lie round [something] «clothes, papers, toys» 散落在… ‹room›
④ (to fit in with) 适应 shìyìng he has to organize his life round the kids 他不得不以孩子为中心来安排他的生活 
C.  adverb 
① (in circular movement) 旋转地 xuánzhuǎn de to go round «wheel» 转动 what speed does the Earth go round at? 地球以什么样的速度旋转？ the tune was going round and round in my head 那支曲子一直萦绕在我的头脑里 a plane circled round overhead 一架飞机在头顶上盘旋 
② (in circumference) 以周长计 yǐ zhōucháng jì a tree three metres round 周长3米的一棵树 
③ (forming edge) 围绕着 wéiràozhe to go all the way round «fence, wall, moat» 环绕四周 a garden with a wall all round 有围墙的花园 
④ (on all sides) 在周围 zài zhōuwéi to crowd/gather round 围拢/聚集在周围 
⑤ (here and there) 到处 dàochù to stand round 站在四处 to show [somebody] round 领某人到处看看 we could have a look round if you've got time 如果你有时间的话，我们可以到处看看 a large valley with a number of small farms scattered round 有许多小农场散落其间的大山谷 round here 在附近 zài fùjìn 
⑥ (in opposite direction) 反方向地 fǎn fāngxiàng de to look round 回头看 to turn [something] round 把某物掉转过来 turn your chair the other way round 把你的椅子转过去 it's the wrong way round 方向弄反了 
⑦ (changing direction) 向另一侧 xiàng lìng yī cè it was the last house before the road curved round 过了这座房子，这条路就要拐弯了 we walked round to the back of the house 我们兜到房子后面 we had to drive the long way round 我们不得不开车兜远路 
⑧ (relative or different position) [表示相对位置或位置的变动]which way round does it go? 它通往哪一个方向？ is this the right way round? 这是正确的路线吗？ they've moved all the furniture round 他们移动了所有家具的位置 
⑨ (to various people) 逐个 zhúgè there were smiles all round 每个人的脸上都露出了微笑 to pass/hand [something] round 把某物传给大家 to go round 流传 there's a rumour going round that … 有传言说… 
⑩ (to office, work, home) 到某处 dào mǒu chù (at office, work, home) 在某处 zài mǒu chù she's coming round today 她今天要过来 to be round 在这里 I'll be round in an hour 我一小时后到 to be round at a place 在某处 zài mǒu chù I'll be round at Joe's later 过一会儿我会在乔那儿 to go round 顺便拜访 to go round to a place 去某处 
⑪ (as part of cycle) 循环地 xúnhuán de as summer comes round 当夏天到来时 this time round 又到了这个时候 all year round 一年到头 
D.  round about adverb phraseespecially BrE 
① (approximately) 大约 dàyuē round about 50 people 大约50人 it happened round about here 这件事大约发生在这儿 
② (nearby) 在附近 zài fùjìn 
E.  noun 
① (of events, in contest) 轮次 lúncì a round of [something]; 一轮 ‹meetings, discussions, negotiations›the next round of talks 下一轮会谈 the qualifying round 资格赛 the final round of voting 最后一轮投票 the first round of the World Cup 世界杯的首轮比赛 he was knocked out in the third round 他在第三回合被淘汰 
② (in golf) 整场比赛 zhěngchǎng bǐsài to play a round of golf 打一场高尔夫球赛 
③ Riding 整套跳跃 zhěngtào tiàoyuè a clear round 没有失误的整套跳跃动作 
④ (series of activities) 一连串 yīliánchuàn the daily round of activities 日常活动 her life is one long round of parties and fun 她的生活就是没完没了的聚会和玩乐 
⑤ (of postman, milkman, paper boy or girl) 巡回 xúnhuí ; (of watchman, security guard) 巡视 xúnshì we saw the postman pass by on his round 我们看到邮差在送信的路上从这儿经过 
⑥ (of drinks) 一巡 yī xún to pay for a round 支付一巡酒钱 
⑦ (burst) 一阵 yīzhèn a round of applause/cheering 一阵掌声/欢呼 
⑧ Military (unit of ammunition) 一发弹药 yī fā dànyào a round of ammunition 一发弹药 yī fā dànyào we only have three rounds left 我们只剩下三发子弹了 
⑨ Military (shot) 一次射击 yī cì shèjī to fire round after round 一次又一次射击 rounds of machine-gun fire 机枪的连续射击 
⑩ (circular shape) 圆团 yuántuán cut the pastry into rounds 把油酥面团切成圆块 
⑪ Music (canon) 轮唱 lúnchàng 
⑫ (dance) 圆圈舞 yuánquānwǔ 
⑬ Theatre in the round 舞台在观众中央的 wǔtái zài guānzhòng zhōngyāng de theatre in the round 环形剧场 huánxíng jùchǎng 
⑭ Art in the round; «sculpture» 立体的 lìtǐ de Canova's work in the round 卡诺瓦的立体雕塑作品 
⑮ Culinary (of cheese) 圆形奶酪 yuánxíng nǎilào (of meat) 牛股肉 niúgǔròu a round of beef 一大块牛腿肉 
⑯ BrE Culinary (of sandwiches) 整片三明治 zhěngpiàn sānmíngzhì a round of ham sandwiches 一份火腿三明治 
⑰ BrE Culinary (slice of bread) 一整片面包 yī zhěng piàn miànbāo a round of toast 一整片吐司面包 
F.  rounds noun plural 巡行 xúnxíng to do one's rounds «security guard» 巡视 xúnshì «postman, milkman» 挨户递送 āi hù dìsòng «refuse collector» 挨户收取 āi hù shōuqǔ the doctor was on her daily ward rounds 大夫在例行查房 to do or go BrE or make AmE the rounds «rumour, story, joke, flu» 传播 «document» 传递 chuándì to do or make the rounds of [somebody]/[something] 逐一巡访某人/某处 she did the rounds of the employment agencies, but couldn't find anything suitable 她去了一家又一家职业介绍所，但是没找到合适的工作 
G.  transitive verb 
① (go around) 绕过 ràoguo the car rounded the corner 汽车绕过了拐角 
② (make round) 使成圆形 shǐ chéng yuánxíng a lathe that rounded chair legs 旋椅子腿的车床 he rounded his lips to whistle 他嘟起嘴唇吹口哨 
③ Phonet 以圆唇发 yǐ yuán chún fā ‹vowel›
H.  intransitive verb (become round) 成圆形 chéng yuánxíng her eyes rounded with delight/horror 她高兴得眼睛睁得大大的/恐惧得两眼圆睁 PHRASAL VERBS round down transitive verb [round something down, round down something] 把…下舍入 bǎ… xià shěrù ‹figure, number›round off [round something off, round off something] transitive verb 
① (finish off) 圆满结束 yuánmǎn jiéshù she rounded off the tour with a concert at Carnegie Hall 她在卡内基音乐厅举行的音乐会圆满结束了这次巡回演出 a dance to round off the evening 圆满结束晚会的舞蹈节目 
② (make smooth) «plane, tool» 使…平整光滑 shǐ… píngzhěng guānghuá ‹corner›to round [something] off with [something]; 用某物使某物变得平滑 you can round off the corners with sandpaper 你可以用砂纸将角磨光 use a plane to round off the sharp edges 用刨子刨平尖利的边沿 
③ (change) 把…舍入 bǎ… shěrù ‹figure, number›use rounded off figures to simplify the calculations 用经过凑整的数字简化计算 round on transitive verb[round on somebody] 突然对…发难 tūrán duì… fānàn she rounded on me angrily 她突然对我大发雷霆 round out transitive verb [round something out, round out something] 使…更完整 shǐ… gèng wánzhěng ‹list, numbers, range, education›round up transitive verb 
① [round somebody/something up, round up somebody/something] (assemble) 聚集 jùjí I rounded up a few friends for a party 我召集了几个朋友搞了个聚会 
② [round somebody up, round up somebody] (arrest) 拘捕 jūbǔ thousands of students were rounded up when the military took power 军队夺取了政权以后，成千上万的学生遭到拘捕 
③ [round something up, round up something] (increase) 把…上舍入 bǎ… shang shěrù ‹figure, number›we'll round the weight up to the nearest kilo 我们会把重量上舍入最接近的公斤数 round upon transitive verb = round on 
round 
round

▶adjective
1 shaped like or approximately like a circle or cylinder: she was seated at a small, round table. 
• having a curved shape like part of the circumference of a circle: round arches.
2 shaped like or approximately like a sphere: a round glass ball 
the grapes are small and round. 
• (of a person's body) plump. 
• having a curved surface with no sharp or jagged projections: the boulders look round and smooth.
3 (of a voice) rich and mellow; not harsh.
4 [attributive] (of a number) altered for convenience of expression or calculation, for example to the nearest whole number or multiple of ten or five: the size of the fleet is given in round numbers. 
• used to show that a figure has been completely and exactly reached: a round dozen. 
• archaic (of a sum of money) considerable: his business is worth a round sum to me.
5 archaic (of a person or their manner of speaking) not omitting or disguising anything; frank and truthful: she berated him in good round terms. 
▶noun
1 a circular piece of a particular substance: cut the pastry into rounds. 
• a thick disk of beef cut from the haunch as a joint.
2 an act of visiting each of a number of people or places: she did the rounds of her family to say goodbye 
he made the rounds of the city's churches. 
• a tour of inspection, typically repeated regularly, in which the safety or well-being of those visited is checked: the doctor is just making his rounds in the wards.
3 one of a sequence of sessions or groups of related actions or events, typically such that development or progress can be seen between one group and another: the two sides held three rounds of talks. 
• a division of a contest such as a boxing or wrestling match. 
• one of a succession of stages in a sporting contest or other competition, in each of which more candidates are eliminated: the playoffs in the second round. 
• an act of playing all the holes in a golf course once: Eileen enjoys the occasional round of golf.
4 a regularly recurring sequence of activities or functions: their lives were a daily round of housework and laundry. 
• Music a song for three or more unaccompanied voices or parts, each singing the same theme but starting one after another, at the same pitch or in octaves; a simple canon. 
• a set of drinks bought for all the members of a group, typically as part of a sequence in which each member in turn buys such a set: it's my round.
5 a measured quantity or number of something, in particular: 
• the amount of ammunition needed to fire one shot. 
• Archery a fixed number of arrows shot from a fixed distance. 
▶adverb chiefly British variant of around. 
▶preposition chiefly British variant of around. 
▶verb [with object]
1 pass and go around (something) so as to move on in a changed direction: the ship rounded the cape and sailed north.
2 alter (a number) to one less exact but more convenient for calculations: we'll round the weight up to the nearest pound 
the committee rounded down the figure 
let's just round it off to an even ten dollars.
3 give a round shape to: a lathe that rounded chair legs. 
• [no object] become circular in shape: her eyes rounded in dismay. 
• Phonetics pronounce (a vowel) with the lips narrowed and protruded. 
PHRASES
in the round
1 (of sculpture) standing free with all sides shown, rather than carved in relief against a ground. 
• treated fully and thoroughly; with all aspects shown or considered: to understand social phenomena one must see them in the round.
2 (of a theatrical performance) with the audience placed on at least three sides of the stage. make (or go) the rounds (of a story or joke) be passed on from person to person.round about
1 on all sides or in all directions; surrounding someone or something: everything round about was covered with snow.
2 at a point or time approximately equal to: they arrived round about nine. 
• approximately: we raised round about half a million dollars 
round about 10,000 homes were affected.PHRASAL VERBS round something off make the edges or corners of something smooth: round off the spars with a soft plastic fitting. 
• complete something in a satisfying or suitable way: I rounded off my visit to Ganu by purchasing a number of exquisite masks. round on make a sudden verbal attack on or unexpected retort to: she rounded on me angrily. round something out make something more complete: round out the meal with fruit and salad. round someone/something up drive or collect a number of people or animals together for a particular purpose: in the afternoon the cows are rounded up for milking. 
• arrest a number of people.DERIVATIVES roundish 
ˈroundiSH 
adjective. roundness 
ˈroun(d)nəs 
nounORIGIN Middle English: from the Old French stem round-, from a variant of Latin rotundus ‘rotund.’ usage: On the difference in use between round and around, see usage at around .
