ruin 
BrE ˈruːɪn, AmE ˈruɪn 
A. transitive verb 
① (destroy) 毁坏 huǐhuài ‹furniture, relationship, economy, reputation›smoking can ruin your health 吸烟有损健康 to ruin [somebody's] prospects/career 葬送某人的前程/事业 to ruin [somebody's] chances of doing [something] 断送某人做某事的机会 
② (spoil) 破坏 pòhuài ‹holiday, atmosphere, view›; 宠坏 chǒnghuài ‹child, pet›
③ (reduce to poverty) 使…破产 shǐ… pòchǎn ‹person, company›
B.  noun 
① Uncountable(state of collapse) (physical) 毁坏 huǐhuài (financial) 破产 pòchǎn (moral) 堕落 duòluò in a state of ruin «town, building» 破败不堪 to fall or go into ruin; 毁灭 to be on the brink of financial ruin 处于破产的边缘 a man brought to ruin by debt/drugs 因债务/吸食毒品而一贫如洗的人 to be reduced to (a state of) ruin; 落到破产的地步 to go to rack and ruin «building, object» 变得破败不堪 «person» 彻底毁掉 chèdǐ huǐdiào 
② Countable(building) 破败的建筑 pòbài de jiànzhù the abbey/castle is now a ruin 这座修道院/城堡现在已破败不堪 
③ Uncountable(downfall) 毁灭的原因 huǐmiè de yuányīn that woman will be the ruin of him! 那个女人会毁了他！ 
C.  ruins noun plural (remains) 废墟 fèixū the ruins of Pompeii/an old castle 庞贝城/古城堡遗迹 an earthquake left the whole town in ruins 地震使整座城市成为废墟 our marriage/her reputation/the economy is in ruins 我们的婚姻已经破裂/她已经身败名裂/经济已经崩溃 their plan/her career now lay in ruins 他们的计划泡汤了/她的事业被葬送了 
ruin 
▶noun
1 the buildings were saved from ruin: disintegration, decay, disrepair, dilapidation, ruination; destruction, demolition, wreckage; informal teardown. ANTONYMS preservation, reconstruction.
2 (ruins) the ruins of a church: remains, remnants, fragments, relics; rubble, debris, wreckage.
3 he was careening toward his ruin: downfall, collapse, defeat, undoing, failure, breakdown, ruination; Waterloo. ANTONYMS success, triumph.
4 local merchants are facing ruin: bankruptcy, insolvency, penury, poverty, destitution, impoverishment, indigence; failure. ANTONYMS success, wealth.
▶verb
1 don't ruin my plans: wreck, destroy, spoil, mar, blight, shatter, dash, torpedo, scotch, mess up; sabotage; informal screw up, foul up, put the kibosh on, nix, scupper, scuttle. ANTONYMS save, restore.
2 the bank's collapse ruined them all: bankrupt, make insolvent, impoverish, pauperize, wipe out, break, cripple, devastate; bring someone to their knees.
3 a country ruined by civil war: destroy, devastate, lay waste, ravage; raze, demolish, wreck, wipe out, flatten. ANTONYMS repair, rebuild.
PHRASES
in ruins
1 the abbey is in ruins: derelict, ruined, in disrepair, falling to pieces, dilapidated, tumbledown, ramshackle, decrepit, decaying, ruinous.
2 his career is in ruins: destroyed, ruined, in pieces, over, finished; informal in tatters, on the rocks, done for.
