sack 
BrE sak, AmE sæk 

A.  noun 
① Countable(bag) [结实耐用的] 大口袋 dà kǒudài a coal/mail sack 煤袋/邮袋 
② Countable(contents) 一大袋 yī dà dài a sack of flour/coal/mail 一大袋面粉/煤/邮件 a sack of potatoes pejorative 粗陋难看 
③ Uncountablecolloquial (dismissal) the sack 开除 kāichú to get the sack; 被炒鱿鱼 bèi chǎoyóuyú to give [somebody] the sack; 开除某人 kāichú mǒu rén to be threatened with the sack 受到解雇的威胁 shòudào jiěgù de wēixié 
④ Uncountablecolloquial (bed) the sack 床 chuáng to hit the sack 上床睡觉 shàng chuáng shuìjiào to be great in the sack 床上功夫了得 chuáng shang gōngfu liǎodé 
⑤ Uncountableliterary (pillage) 劫掠 jiélüè 
B.  transitive verb 
① colloquial (dismiss) 解雇 jiěgù ‹worker, employee›to sack [somebody] for [something]/doing [something]; 因某事/做某事而解雇某人 to be/get sacked; 被炒鱿鱼 bèi chǎoyóuyú to be sacked from one's job 被解雇 
② literary (pillage) 洗劫 xǐjié PHRASAL VERB sack out intransitive verb AmE colloquial 上床睡觉 shàng chuáng shuìjiào 
sack
1 
sak

▶noun
1 a large bag made of a strong material such as burlap, thick paper, or plastic, used for storing and carrying goods. 
• the contents of a sack or the amount it can contain: a sack of flour.
2 a loose, unfitted, or shapeless garment, in particular: 
• historical a woman's loose gown. 
• historical a decorative piece of dress material fastened to the shoulders of a woman's gown in loose pleats and forming a long train, fashionable in the 18th century.
3 (the sack) informal, chiefly North American bed, especially as regarded as a place for sex.
4 (the sack) informal dismissal from employment: he got the sack for swearing 
they were given the sack.
5 Baseball, informal a base.
6 American Football an act of tackling a quarterback behind the line of scrimmage before he can throw a pass. 
▶verb [with object]
1 informal dismiss from employment: any official found to be involved would be sacked on the spot.
2 (sack out) North American informal go to sleep or bed.
3 American Football tackle (a quarterback) behind the line of scrimmage before he can throw a pass.
4 rare put into a sack or sacks. 
PHRASES
hit the sack informal go to bed. a sack of potatoes informal used in similes to refer to clumsiness, inertness, or unceremonious treatment of the person or thing in question: he drags me in like a sack of potatoes.DERIVATIVES sackable 
ˈsakəb(ə)l 
adjective. sacklike 
-ˌlīk 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English sacc, from Latin saccus ‘sack, sackcloth,’ from Greek sakkos, of Semitic origin. Sense
1 of the verb dates from the mid 19th century.
