safe 
BrE seɪf, AmE seɪf 

A.  adjective 
① (unharmed) 平安的 píng'ān de safe and sound 安然无恙的 to hope for [somebody's] safe return/arrival 希望某人平安归来/到达 have a safe journey! 一路平安！ 
② predicative (unlikely to be harmed) 安全的 ānquán de is the bike safe here? 自行车放在这里没事吧？ your reputation is safe, at least 至少你的名誉不会受损 to be safe from [something]; 免受某事物的危害 if we go up the tree, will we be safe from attack? 我们爬到树上是否就能不受攻击？ to keep the documents safe 放好文件 your secret is safe with me 我不会泄露你的秘密 the money is safe with him 钱放在他那里尽可以放心 as safe as houses 十分安全的 
③ (not harmful) 无害的 wúhài de the water is safe for drinking 这水可以喝 the drug is safe for pregnant women 这种药对孕妇无害 to make a stadium safe for the public 让体育馆成为公众放心的去处 
④ (prudent) 稳妥的 wěntuǒ de ‹choice, estimate, topic›a safe investment 无风险投资 that would be the safest thing to do under the circumstances 在这种情况下那是最稳妥的做法 it would be safer not to mention that 最好别提那件事 
⑤ (probably correct) 有把握的 yǒu bǎwò de it's safe to say that … 可以肯定地说… 
⑥ (reliable) 可靠的 kěkào de a safe driver 谨慎的司机 to be in safe hands 由可靠的人照管 to have a safe pair of hands 手法稳健 better safe than sorry 谨慎总比后悔好 to be on the safe side 谨慎起见 to play (it) safe 稳扎稳打 
B.  noun 
① (for valuables) 保险箱 bǎoxiǎnxiāng 
② (for meat) 冷藏柜 lěngcángguì 
safe 
sāf

▶adjective
1 [predicative] protected from or not exposed to danger or risk; not likely to be harmed or lost: eggs remain in the damp sand, safe from marine predators 
she felt safer with them than alone. 
• Baseball having reached a base without being put out: Davis was safe when the right fielder dropped a fly ball. 
• Baseball allowing the batter to reach base and not involving an error: a safe hit. 
• not likely to cause or lead to harm or injury; not involving danger or risk: we have to cross the river where it's safe for us to do so 
a safe investment that produced regular income. 
• (of a place) affording security or protection: put it in a safe place. 
• often derogatory cautious and unenterprising: MacGregor would be a compromise, the safe choice. 
• based on good reasons or evidence and not likely to be proved wrong: the verdict is safe and satisfactory 
his world, it's safe to say, will not fall apart.
2 uninjured; with no harm done: they had returned safe and sound 
hopes of her safe return later faded. 
▶noun
1 a strong fireproof cabinet with a complex lock, used for the storage of valuables.
2 North American informal a condom. 
PHRASES
in safe hands see hand. safe in the knowledge that used to indicate that one can do something without risk or worry on account of a specified fact: they used to recruit hundreds a year, safe in the knowledge that many would leave. to be on the safe side in order to have a margin of security against risks: to be on the safe side, she had recorded everything.DERIVATIVES safeness 
ˈsāfnis 
nounORIGIN Middle English (as an adjective): from Old French sauf, from Latin salvus ‘uninjured.’ The noun is from the verb save1, later assimilated to the adjectival form.
