sail 
BrE seɪl, AmE seɪl 

A.  noun 
① Countable and uncountable(for boat) 帆 fān to hoist/lower the sails 扬帆/降帆 to put on more sail 增帆 to take in sail 收帆 to have the wind in one's sails 志在必得 to take the wind out of [somebody's] sails figurative 使某人突然泄气 
② Uncountable(navigation) 帆船航行 fānchuán hángxíng under sail 张着帆 to cross the ocean under sail 扬帆渡海 to set sail from …/for … 从…起航/起航前往… in full sail 张着满帆 
③ Countable and uncountable(voyage in sailing vessel) 乘船航行 chéngchuán hángxíng to go for a sail 乘船出游 how many days' sail is it from Hull to Oslo? 从赫尔到奥斯陆要航行几天？ 
④ Uncountabledated (ships) 帆船 fānchuán 
⑤ Countable(of windmill) [风车的] 翼板 yìbǎn 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (move across water) «boat, ship» 航行 hángxíng the ship sailed into Brest 船驶入布雷斯特港 
② (travel by boat) 乘船旅行 chéngchuán lǚxíng to sail north 乘船北上 to sail around the world 乘船环游世界 to sail close or near to the wind 顶风冒险 figurative 冒大风险 mào dà fēngxiǎn 
③ (start a voyage) «ship, person» 起航 qǐháng what time do we/does the boat sail? 我们/船何时起航？ to sail from/for somewhere; 从某处起航/起航前往某处 
④ (sail yacht for leisure) 乘游艇游玩 chéng yóutǐng yóuwán to go sailing 乘船去游玩 
⑤ (move in air) 掠过 lüèguo the ball sailed over the fence 球飞过了栅栏 clouds were sailing across the sky 云在天上飘 
⑥ (move in stately manner) «person» 昂首而行 ángshǒu érxíng ; «vehicle» 徐徐驶过 xúxú shǐguo ; «swan» 款款游过 kuǎnkuǎn yóuguo to sail into the room 优雅地走进那房间 to sail into work 悠然自得地上班工作 
C.  transitive verb 
① (pilot) 驾驶 jiàshǐ ‹yacht, catamaran›she sailed the boat around the cape/into the harbour 她驾船绕过了海角/进入港口 little boys were sailing model boats on the pond 小男孩们正在操控池塘上的模型船 
② (travel across) 在…上航行 zài… shang hángxíng ‹sea, ocean›PHRASAL VERBS sail in intransitive verb colloquial «person» 昂首进入 ángshǒu jìnrù sail through transitive verb[sail through something] 顺利通过 shùnlì tōngguò ‹exam, interview›she sailed through college 她轻松读完了大学 
sail 
▶noun the ship's sails: canvas, sailcloth.
▶verb
1 we sailed across the Atlantic: voyage, travel by water, steam, navigate, cruise.
2 you can learn to sail here: yacht, boat, go sailing; crew, helm.
3 we sail tonight: set sail, put to sea, leave port, weigh anchor, shove off.
4 he is sailing the ship: steer, pilot, navigate, con, helm, captain; informal skipper.
5 clouds were sailing past: glide, drift, float, flow, sweep, skim, coast, flit.
6 a pencil sailed past his ear: whiz, speed, streak, shoot, whip, buzz, zoom, flash; fly, wing, soar, zip.
PHRASES
sail through she sailed through the exam: succeed easily at, pass easily, romp through, walk through.
