salt 
BrE sɔːlt, sɒlt, AmE sɔlt 

A.  noun 
① UncountableCulinary 食盐 shíyán a pinch of salt 一小撮盐 a grain of salt 一粒盐 the salt of the earth figurative (person) 诚实可信的人 (group) 社会中坚 shèhuì zhōngjiān to take [something] with a pinch or grain of salt figurative 对某事将信将疑 worth one's salt figurative 称职的 to be above/below the salt figurative 属于上层/下层社会的 
② CountableChemistry 盐 yán the salts of sulphuric acid 硫酸盐 before noun 盐的 yán de ‹molecule, crystal›a salt solution 盐溶液 a salt factory 盐厂 yánchǎng the salt industry 制盐业 
③ Countablecolloquial (sailor) [有经验的] 水手 shuǐshǒu an old salt 老水手 
B.  adjective 
① Culinary 腌制的 yānzhì de ‹beef, pork›; 咸的 xián de ‹taste›
② (brackish) 咸水的 xián shuǐ de ‹springs›; 海水的 hǎishuǐ de ‹spray›a salt lake 盐湖 
C.  transitive verb 
① (season) 在…中放盐 zài… zhōng fàng yán ‹food›; figurative 点缀 diǎnzhuì his work is salted with slogans and phrases in capital letters 他的作品中穿插了大写的口号和短语 
② (preserve) 用盐腌制 yòng yán yānzhì ‹meat, fish›
③ (spread salt on) 在…上撒盐 zài… shang sǎ yán ‹road, path›PHRASAL VERB salt away transitive verb[salt away something], [salt something away] colloquial 私下积攒 sīxià jīzǎn ‹amount, money›
salt 
sôlt

▶noun
1 (also common salt) a white crystalline substance that gives seawater its characteristic taste and is used for seasoning or preserving food. [Alternative name: sodium chloride; chemical formula: NaCl. See sea salt .] 
• literary something that adds freshness or piquancy: he described danger as the salt of pleasure. 
• a saltcellar.
2 Chemistry any chemical compound formed from the reaction of an acid with a base, with all or part of the hydrogen of the acid replaced by a metal or other cation.
3 (usually old salt) informal an experienced sailor. 
▶adjective [attributive]
1 impregnated with, treated with, or tasting of salt: salt water 
salt beef.
2 (of a plant) growing on the coast or in salt marshes. 
▶verb [with object]
1 (usually as adjective salted) season or preserve with salt: cook the carrots in boiling salted water. 
• make (something) piquant or more interesting: there was good talk to salt the occasion. 
• sprinkle (a road or path) with salt in order to melt snow or ice.
2 informal fraudulently make (a mine) appear to be a paying one by placing rich ore in it.
3 (as adjective salted) (of a horse) having developed a resistance to disease by surviving it. 
PHRASES
rub salt into the (or someone's) wound make a painful experience even more painful for someone. the salt of the earth a person or group of people of great kindness, reliability, or honesty. [with biblical allusion to Matt 5:13.] sit below the salt be of lower social standing or worth. [from the former custom of placing a large saltcellar in the middle of a dining table with the host at one end.] take something with a grain (or pinch) of salt regard something as exaggerated; believe only part of something: take a stock tip with a grain of salt. worth one's salt good or competent at the job or profession specified: any astrologer worth her salt would have predicted this.PHRASAL VERBS salt something away informal secretly store or put by something, especially money. salt something out cause soap to separate from lye by adding salt. 
• Chemistry cause an organic compound to separate from an aqueous solution by adding an electrolyte.DERIVATIVES saltish adjective. saltless adjective. saltness 
ˈsôltnəs 
nounORIGIN Old English sealt (noun), sealtan (verb), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch zout and German Salz (nouns), from an Indo-European root shared by Latin sal,Greek hals ‘salt.’
