scale
1 
BrE skeɪl, AmE skeɪl 

A.  noun 
① Countable(grading system) 等级 děngjí we assess performance on a scale of 0 to
10 我们按0到10级来评估成绩 to move up the (social) scale （社会）等级上升 a scale of values 价值观体系 at the other end of the scale 在等级的另一端 a scale of charges 收费等级 a pay or wage scale 工资级别 a graduated scale 级差制 an incremental scale 递进级别制 
② Countable(measuring mark) 刻度 kèdù 
③ Countable(ratio) 比例 bǐlì the scale (of the plans) is one to a hundred （设计图的）比例为1:100 to scale 按比例 out of scale 不成比例 the scale of the map is too small to see anything clearly 地图比例太小，什么都看不清 a scale model/drawing 按比例缩放的模型/图画 
④ Uncountable(size) 规模 guīmó (degree) 程度 chéngdù (scope) 范围 fànwéi the scale of the disaster 受灾程度 the scale of change 变化的程度 the scale of production/operations 生产/运营规模 on a large or grand scale 大规模地 she loves entertaining on a grand scale 她喜欢大宴宾客 on a monumental scale 规模宏大地 on a small/an inadequate scale 小/不够规模地 on a national scale 在全国范围内 she had never seen destruction on such a scale 她从未见过这么大规模的破坏 
⑤ CountableMusic 音阶 yīnjiē to play/sing/practise a scale 演奏/唱出/练习音阶 the scale of C major C大调音阶 
B.  transitive verb 爬上 páshang ‹wall, ladder›; 攀上 pānshang ‹mountain, tower›PHRASAL VERBS scale down especially AmE scale back transitive verb[scale something down, scale down something] 缩小 suōxiǎo ‹drawing, plan›; 削减 xuējiǎn ‹production, imports, expenditure, investment›; 降低 jiàngdī ‹price, earnings›a scaled down version (of [something]) （某物的）缩小版 the army is scaling down its operations 军队现正把军事行动降级 scale up transitive verb[scale something up, scale up something] 放大 fàngdà ‹drawing, plan›; 增加 zēngjiā ‹production, imports, expenditure, investment›; 提高 tígāo ‹price, earnings›a scaled up version (of [something]) （某物的）扩大版 the army is scaling up its operations 军队现正把军事行动升级 
scale
1 
skāl

▶noun
1 each of the small, thin horny or bony plates protecting the skin of fish and reptiles, typically overlapping one another.
2 something resembling a fish scale in appearance or function, in particular: 
• a thick dry flake of skin. 
• a rudimentary leaf, feather, or bract. 
• each of numerous microscopic tilelike structures covering the wings of butterflies and moths.
3 a flaky deposit, in particular: 
• a white deposit formed in a kettle, boiler, etc., by the evaporation of water containing lime. 
• tartar formed on teeth. 
• a coating of oxide formed on heated metal. 
▶verb
1 [with object] remove scale or scales from: he scales the fish and removes the innards. 
• remove tartar from (teeth) by scraping them.
2 [no object] (often as noun scaling) (especially of the skin) form scales: moisturizers can ease off drying and scaling. 
• come off in scales or thin pieces; flake off: the paint was scaling from the brick walls. DERIVATIVES scaleless 
ˈskāl(l)is 
adjective. scaler 
ˈskālər 
nounORIGIN Middle English: shortening of Old French escale, from the Germanic base of scale2 .
