scan 
BrE skan, AmE skæn 

A.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -nn-) 
① (examine) 仔细观察 zǐxì guānchá ‹horizon, sea, crowd›to scan [something] for [something]; 仔细观察某物以寻找某物 to scan [somebody's] face intently 细细端详某人的脸 
② (traverse) 横扫 héngsǎo the searchlight beam scanned the sky/every corner 探照灯的光束扫过天空/每个角落 
③ Literature 标出…的格律 biāochū… de gélǜ ‹poem, verse, line›
④ Medicine «doctor, machine» 扫描检查 sǎomiáo jiǎnchá ‹patient, knee, brain›
⑤ Computing (convert to digital form) 扫描 sǎomiáo ‹image, data›to scan a photo on to a computer 把一张照片扫描到计算机里 
⑥ Computing (check) 扫描…查病毒 sǎomiáo… chá bìngdú ‹e-mail, file›
⑦ (pass across) «radar, sonar» 扫描 sǎomiáo ‹region, space›
B.  intransitive verb (present participle etc. -nn-) «poem, line, verse» 符合格律 fúhé gélǜ the poem scans well 这首诗格律工整 
C.  noun 
① Medicine (examination) 扫描检查 sǎomiáo jiǎnchá (image) 扫描图 sǎomiáotú to do or perform a scan 进行扫描检查 to have or undergo a scan 接受扫描检查 
② Computing (check) 扫描查找 sǎomiáo cházhǎo 
③ Physics 扫描图像 sǎomiáo túxiàng PHRASAL VERB scan in transitive verb[scan something in, scan in something] 扫描输入 sǎomiáo shūrù 
scan 
skan

▶verb (scans, scanning, scanned) [with object]
1 look at all parts of (something) carefully in order to detect some feature: he raised his binoculars to scan the coast. 
• look quickly but not very thoroughly through (a document or other text) in order to identify relevant information: we scan the papers for news from the trouble spots 
[no object] : I scanned through the reference materials.
2 cause (a surface, object, or part of the body) to be traversed by a detector or an electromagnetic beam: their brains are scanned so that researchers can monitor the progress of the disease. 
• cause (a beam) to traverse across a surface or object: we scanned the beam over a sector of 120°. 
• convert (a document or picture) into digital form for storage or processing on a computer: text and pictures can be scanned into the computer. 
• resolve (a picture) into its elements of light and shade in a prearranged pattern for the purposes of television transmission.
3 analyze the meter of (a line of verse) by reading with the emphasis on its rhythm or by examining the pattern of feet or syllables. 
• [no object] (of verse) conform to metrical principles. 
▶noun an act of scanning someone or something: a quick scan of the sports page. 
• a medical examination using a scanner: a brain scan. 
• an image obtained by scanning or with a scanner: we can't predict anything until we have seen the scan. DERIVATIVES scannable adjectiveORIGIN late Middle English (as a verb in sense
3 of the verb): from Latin scandere ‘climb’ (in late Latin ‘scan (verses)’), by analogy with the raising and lowering of one's foot when marking rhythm. From ‘analyze (meter)’ arose the senses ‘estimate the correctness of’ and ‘examine minutely,’ which led to ‘look at searchingly’ (late 18th century).
