scar 
BrE skɑː, AmE skɑr 

A.  noun 
① (mark on skin) 疤 bā acne scars 痤疮疤痕 to have a scar on one's knee 膝盖上有一道疤 to leave a scar 留下疤痕 to bear the scars of [something] 带有某事物留下的伤疤 scars of battle 搏斗的伤痕 
② figurative (psychological damage) 心理创伤 xīnlǐ chuāngshāng to leave scars on [somebody] 给某人留下心灵创伤 psychological/mental scars 心灵/精神创伤 
③ figurative (blemish) 瑕疵 xiácī (ugly mark) 污点 wūdiǎn racism has been a scar on the game 种族主义为比赛抹了黑 the town still bore the scars of war 城里依旧可见战争的疮痍 
B.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -rr-) 
① (mark) «accident, disease» 给…留下疤痕 gěi… liúxia bāhén ‹person, face, arm›to scar [somebody] for life 给某人留下终生伤疤 
② figurative (traumatize) «experience, event» 给…造成精神创伤 gěi… zàochéng jīngshén chuāngshāng ‹person, psyche›to be scarred for life 留下终生的心理创伤 
③ figurative (spoil) «action, damage, crime» 给…留下瑕疵 gěi… liúxia xiácī ‹surface, structure›the stone walls were scarred with graffiti 涂鸦破坏了这些石墙的外观 a society scarred by crime 被犯罪活动玷污的社会 PHRASAL VERB scar over intransitive verb «wound, cut» 结疤 jié bā 
scar 
skär

▶noun
1 a mark left on the skin or within body tissue where a wound, burn, or sore has not healed completely and fibrous connective tissue has developed: a faint scar ran the length of his left cheek. 
• a lasting effect of grief, fear, or other emotion left on a person's character by a traumatic experience: the attack has left mental scars on Terry and his family. 
• a mark left on something following damage of some kind: Max could see scars of the blast. 
• a mark left at the point of separation of a leaf, frond, or other part from a plant.
2 a steep high cliff or rock outcrop, especially of limestone. [Middle English: from Old Norse sker ‘low reef’; compare with skerry .] 
▶verb (scars, scarring, scarred) [with object] mark with a scar or scars: he is likely to be scarred for life after injuries to his face, arms, and legs 
[as adjective, in combination] (-scarred) : battle-scarred troops. 
• [no object] form or be marked with a scar. DERIVATIVES scarless adjectiveORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French escharre, via late Latin from Greek eskhara ‘scab.’
