scatter 
BrE ˈskatə, AmE ˈskædər 
A. transitive verb 
① (throw around) to scatter (about or around); 撒 sǎ ‹sand, salt, ashes, seeds›
② (place haphazardly) to scatter (about or around); 随处放置 suíchù fàngzhì ‹papers, toys›clothes were scattered on every chair 每把椅子上都有随手乱放的衣服 
③ (cause to disperse) 驱散 qūsàn ‹crowd, birds, clouds›
④ Physics 散射 sǎnshè ‹electrons, photons›
B.  intransitive verb 散开 sànkāi 
C.  noun 散落 sànluò a scatter of houses/rain drops 稀稀落落的房屋/雨滴 
scatter 
▶verb
1 the papers were scattered by the sudden breeze 
scatter the seeds as evenly as possible: throw, strew, toss, fling; sprinkle, spread, distribute, sow, broadcast, disseminate; literary bestrew. ANTONYMS gather.
2 the crowd scattered 
onlookers were scattered in all directions: disperse, break up, disband, separate, move/go in different directions, go separate ways; dissipate, dissolve; drive, send, put to flight, chase. ANTONYMS assemble.CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD scatter, broadcast, diffuse, dispel, disperse, disseminate, dissipate If you scatter something, you throw it about in different directions, often using force (the wind scattered leaves around the yard). Disperse implies a scattering that completely breaks up a mass or assemblage and spreads the units far and wide (the crowd dispersed as soon as the storm arrived; the ships were so widely dispersed that they couldn't see each other). To dispel is to scatter or to drive away something that obscures, confuses, or bothers (to dispel her fears), while to diffuse is to lessen the intensity of something by spreading it out over a broader area (the curtains diffused the bright sunlight pouring in the window). Dissipate suggests that something has completely dissolved, disintegrated, or vanished (early-morning mist dissipated by the sun). Broadcast originally meant to scatter seed, but it is also used figuratively to mean make public (the news of the president's defeat was broadcast the next morning). Disseminate also means to publish or make public, but it implies a wider audience and usually a longer duration. You can spend a lifetime disseminating knowledge, in other words, but you would broadcast the news of the birth of your first grandchild.These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
