schedule 
BrE ˈʃɛdjuːl, ˈskɛdjuːl, AmE ˈskɛdʒəl 

A.  noun 
① (timetable for bus, train, etc.) 时刻表 shíkèbiǎo railway or train schedules 火车时刻表 to arrive on/ahead of/behind schedule 准点/提前/晚点到达 
② (projected plan) 计划 jìhuà to draw up or make out a schedule 起草计划 to adhere or stick or keep to a schedule 按计划行事 to or on or according to schedule 按计划 everything went off smoothly, according to schedule 一切照计划进展顺利 behind/ahead of schedule 落后于/早于计划进度 a tight schedule 紧张的日程安排 
③ (day-to-day-plans, timetable) 日程安排 rìchéng ānpái a full/busy/crowded schedule 满满/忙碌/紧张的日程安排 the agency has arranged an absolutely exhausting schedule for the trip 旅行社安排的旅行日程令人疲惫不堪 
④ Law (of items) 清单 qīngdān (of legal documents) 附件 fùjiàn (of prices, charges, contents) 一览表 yīlǎnbiǎo the schedule of postal charges 邮资明细表 as per the attached schedule (to a contract) 参见附件 
⑤ BrE (tax form) 报税表 bàoshuìbiǎo 
B.  transitive verb 安排 ānpái the publication of the novel is scheduled for September 小说定于九月出版 the plane/flight is scheduled to arrive at midday 飞机/航班定于正午到达 as scheduled 按计划 the power station was scheduled for completion in 2005 发电站计划于2005年完工 
schedule 
ˈskejəl

▶noun
1 a plan for carrying out a process or procedure, giving lists of intended events and times: we have drawn up an engineering schedule. 
• (usually one's schedule) one's day-to-day plans or timetable: take a moment out of your busy schedule. 
• a timetable: information on airline schedules.
2 chiefly Law an appendix to a formal document or statute, especially as a list, table, or inventory.
3 (with reference to an income tax system) any of the forms (named “A,” “B,” etc.) issued for completion and relating to the various classes into which taxable income is divided. 
▶verb [with object] arrange or plan (an event) to take place at a particular time: the release of the single is scheduled for April. 
• make arrangements for (someone or something) to do something: [with object and infinitive] : he is scheduled to be released from prison this spring. 
PHRASES
ahead of (or behind) schedule earlier (or later) than planned or expected. on (or according to) schedule on time; as planned or expected.DERIVATIVES schedular 
-ər 
adjectiveORIGIN late Middle English (in the sense ‘scroll, explanatory note, appendix’): from Old French cedule, from late Latin schedula ‘slip of paper,’ diminutive of scheda, from Greek skhedē ‘papyrus leaf.’ The verb dates from the mid 19th century.
