scrap 
BrE skrap, AmE skræp 

A.  noun 
① Countable(of paper, cloth) 碎片 suìpiàn (of verse, conversation) 片段 piànduàn (of news, information) 点滴 diǎndī a scrap of paper 一小片纸 scraps of material 碎布料 the occasional scrap of the conversation 谈话的片言只语 scraps of news/information 零星消息/信息 
② Countable(of meat) 下脚料 xiàjiǎoliào (of bread) 面包屑 miànbāoxiè (of cake) 蛋糕渣 dàngāo zhā (of leftover food) 残羹剩饭 cán gēng shèng fàn the scraps are fed to the pigs 剩饭拿去喂猪 
③ Countable(small amount) 少量 shǎoliàng not a scrap 丝毫没有 he never does a scrap of work! 他一点儿活儿都不干！ it doesn't make a scrap of difference! 这毫无差别！ there isn't a scrap of truth in what he says 他说的话没有丝毫事实根据 
④ Uncountable(waste articles or materials for reprocessing) (metal) 废金属 fèi jīnshǔ ; (other materials) 废料 fèiliào there's a thriving trade in scrap 废金属生意很兴旺 to sell [something] for scrap 把某物当废金属出售 the scrap value 废金属价值 
⑤ Countablecolloquial (fight) 打架 dǎjià ; figurative (quarrel) 争吵 zhēngchǎo to get into a scrap with [somebody] 和某人打架 a fierce scrap 激烈争吵 
B.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -pp-) 
① (dispose of) 报废 bàofèi ‹car, equipment, missile›
② colloquial (do away with) 取消 qǔxiāo ‹project, plan›; 废除 fèichú ‹system, policy, tax›the two governments scrapped the peace talks 两国政府停止了和谈 
C.  intransitive verb(present participle etc. -pp-) colloquial (fight) 打架 dǎjià ; figurative (quarrel) 争吵 zhēngchǎo 
scrap
1 
skrap

▶noun
1 a small piece or amount of something, especially one that is left over after the greater part has been used: I scribbled her address on a scrap of paper 
scraps of information. 
• (scraps) bits of uneaten food left after a meal, especially when fed to animals: he filled Sammy's bowls with fresh water and scraps. 
• used to emphasize the lack or smallness of something: there was not a scrap of aggression in him 
every scrap of green land is up for grabs by development. 
• informal a small person or animal, especially one regarded with affection or sympathy: poor little scrap, she's too hot in that coat. 
• a particularly small thing of its kind: she was wearing a short black skirt and a tiny scrap of a top.
2 (also scrap metal) discarded metal for reprocessing: the steamer was eventually sold for scrap. 
• [often as modifier] any waste articles or discarded material, especially that which can be put to another purpose: we're burning scrap lumber. 
▶verb (scraps, scrapping, scrapped) [with object] discard or remove from service (a retired, old, or inoperative vehicle, vessel, or machine), especially so as to convert it to scrap metal: the decision was made to scrap the entire fleet. 
• abolish or cancel (something, especially a plan, policy, or law) that is now regarded as unnecessary, unwanted, or unsuitable: the station scrapped plans to televise the contest live. ORIGIN late Middle English (as a plural noun denoting fragments of uneaten food): from Old Norse skrap ‘scraps’; related to skrapa ‘to scrape.’ The verb dates from the late 19th century.
