scratch 
BrE skratʃ, AmE skrætʃ 

A.  transitive verb 
① (mark with a scratch) 划破 huápò ‹face, car, glass›the cat scratched me on the arm or scratched my arm 猫抓伤了我的胳膊 to (only or merely or just) scratch the surface of [something] 对某事物（仅仅）作肤浅的探讨 
② (rub with fingernails) 挠 náo ‹itch, spot, bite, part of body›to scratch one's head figurative 冥思苦想 you scratch my back and I'll scratch yours figurative 你给我好处，我也给你好处 
③ (make by scratching) 抠出 kōuchū ‹hole›; 戳刻 chuōkè ‹line, name›
④ Sport 使…退出比赛 shǐ… tuìchū bǐsài ‹horse, competitor›; AmE Politics 画掉…的名字 huàdiào… de míngzi ‹candidate›
⑤ (cancel, abandon) 取消 qǔxiāo ‹project›to scratch the charges 取消收费 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (make marks) 抓 zhuā (wound) 抓伤 zhuāshāng be careful of the cat, she scratches 小心那只猫，它会抓人 a few hens were scratching in the dust of the yard 几只母鸡在院子里刨土 bramble bushes have thorns, and they scratch 黑莓灌木上有刺，能伤人 
② (relieve itch) 挠痒 náoyǎng 
③ (make grating noise) «pen» 发出刮擦声 fāchū guācā shēng I scratched very lightly on the window pane 我轻轻地刮窗玻璃 
④ (withdraw) «competitor, horse, candidate» 退出比赛 tuìchū bǐsài 
C.  noun 
① Countable(wound) 划伤 huáshāng (graze) 擦伤 cāshāng he got a nasty scratch on his cheek 他脸上有严重的抓伤 he came out without a scratch 他毫发未伤地逃了出来 
② Countable(mark) 划痕 huáhén how are we going to remove these scratches from the table? 我们怎么才能除去桌子上的这些划痕？ 
③ Countable(act of scratching) 挠 náo the cat was lying in the sun having a scratch 猫躺在阳光下挠痒痒 one scratch with the tip of this arrow and you are dead 只要被这个箭头蹭到就会丧命 
④ Countable(rasping noise) 刮擦声 guācā shēng there was a scratch at the door 门上传来了抓挠的声音 the scratch of quill pens on paper 鹅毛笔在纸上发出的沙沙声 
⑤ Uncountable(zero) from scratch 从零开始 cóng líng kāishǐ to start from scratch 从零开始 cóng líng kāishǐ she built up this company from scratch 她白手起家创办了这家公司 he lost the manuscript and had to write the whole thing again from scratch 他把手稿弄丢了，只好再从头写起 
⑥ Uncountable(standard) up to scratch 达标的 dábiāo de to be or come up to scratch 达标 dábiāo to keep [somebody]/[something] up to scratch 使某人/某事物符合标准 shǐ mǒu rén/mǒu shìwù fúhé biāozhǔn to bring [somebody]/[something] up to scratch 使某人/某事物达标 shǐ mǒu rén/mǒu shìwù dábiāo 
⑦ Uncountable(in golf) 零让杆 líng ràng gān he plays off scratch 他参加无让杆比赛 
D.  adjectiveattributive 
① (hastily assembled) 仓促拼凑的 cāngcù pīncòu de ‹team, crew, meal›
② (in golf) 无让杆的 wúrànggān de ‹golfer›PHRASAL VERBS scratch around, scratch about intransitive verb 四处扒拉 sìchù bāla the hen was scratching around in the dirt 那只母鸡在到处刨土 I spend hours scratching around for ideas figurative 我花了很长时间苦思冥想新创意 scratch out transitive verb[scratch something out, scratch out something] 
① (erase) 勾去 gōuqù ‹word, line›
② (in attack) to scratch [somebody's] eyes out 抠出某人的眼珠 ［一般为威胁用语］kōuchū mǒu rén de yǎnzhū scratch together transitive verb[scratch something together, scratch together something] 凑集 còují ‹money, people›
scratch 
skraCH

▶verb
1 [with object] score or mark the surface of (something) with a sharp or pointed object: the car's paintwork was battered and scratched 
[no object] : he scratched at a stain on his jacket. 
• make a long, narrow superficial wound in the skin of: her arms were scratched by the thorns 
I scratched myself on the tree. 
• rub (a part of one's body) with one's fingernails to relieve itching: Jessica lifted her sunglasses and scratched her nose. 
• make (a mark or hole) by scoring a surface with a sharp or pointed object: I found two names scratched on one of the windowpanes. 
• write (something) hurriedly or awkwardly: pass me my writing things—I'll scratch a few letters before I get up. 
• remove (something) from something else by pulling a sharp implement over it: he scratched away the plaster. 
• [no object] make a rasping or grating noise by scraping something over a hard surface: the dog scratched to be let in 
(as noun scratching) : there was a sound of scratching behind the wall. 
• [no object] (often as noun scratching) play a record using the scratch technique. ( sense
1 of the noun). 
• [no object] (of a bird or mammal, especially a chicken) rake the ground with the beak or claws in search of food. 
• accomplish (something) with great effort or difficulty: he scratches out a living growing strawberries.
2 [with object] cancel or strike out (writing) with a pen or pencil: the name of Dr. McNab was scratched out and that of Dr. Daniels substituted. 
• withdraw (a competitor) from a competition: Oswald's Zephyr was the second horse to be scratched from a race today. 
• [no object] (of a competitor) withdraw from a competition: due to a knee injury she was forced to scratch from the race. 
• cancel or abandon (an undertaking or project): the original filming schedule has been scratched. 
▶noun
1 a mark or wound made by scratching: the scratches on her arm were throbbing 
[as modifier] : scratch marks on the door. 
• [in singular] informal a slight or insignificant wound or injury: it's nothing—just a scratch. 
• [in singular] an act or spell of scratching oneself to relieve itching: he gave his scalp a good scratch. 
• a rasping or grating noise produced by something rubbing against a hard surface: the scratch of a match lighting a cigarette. 
• a rough hiss, caused by the friction of the stylus in the groove, heard when a record is played. 
• a technique, used especially in rap music, of stopping a record by hand and moving it back and forth to give a rhythmic scratching effect.
2 the starting point in a handicap for a competitor receiving no odds. [originally denoting a boundary or starting line for sports competitors.] 
• Golf a handicap of zero, indicating that a player is good enough to achieve par on a course.
3 informal money: he was working to get some scratch together. 
▶adjective [attributive]
1 assembled or made from whatever is available, and so unlikely to be of the highest quality: at least two vessels set sail with scratch crews.
2 (of a sports competitor or event) with no handicap given. 
PHRASES
from scratch from the very beginning, especially without utilizing or relying on any previous work for assistance: he built his own computer company from scratch. scratch a —— and find a —— used to suggest that an investigation of someone or something soon reveals their true nature: he had been taught to believe “scratch a pious man and find a hypocrite.” scratch one's head informal think hard in order to find a solution to something. 
• feel or express bewilderment. scratch the surface
1 deal with a matter only in the most superficial way: research has only scratched the surface of the paranormal.
2 initiate the briefest investigation to discover something concealed: they have a boring image, but scratch the surface and it's fascinating. up to scratch up to the required standard; satisfactory: her German was not up to scratch. you scratch my back and I'll scratch yours proverb if you do me a favor, I'll return it.DERIVATIVES scratcher nounORIGIN late Middle English: probably a blend of the synonymous dialect words scrat and cratch, both of uncertain origin; compare with Middle Low German kratsen and Old High German krazzōn .
