screw 
BrE skruː, AmE skru 

A.  noun 
① Technology 螺丝 luósī to have a screw loose colloquial 有些古怪 to put the screws on [somebody] colloquial 胁迫某人 
② Nautical (propeller) 螺旋桨 luóxuánjiǎng 
③ colloquial (prison guard) 监狱看守 jiānyù kānshǒu 
④ vulg (sex) 交媾 jiāogòu to have a screw 性交 
⑤ vulg (sexual partner) 性伴侣 xìng bànlǚ to be a good screw 床上功夫很好 
⑥ BrE dated (twist of paper) 小纸卷 xiǎo zhǐjuǎn a screw of sweets/salt/tobacco 一小包糖果/盐/烟草 
⑦ BrE dated colloquial (wage) 工资 gōngzī to be on a good screw 赚高薪 
B.  transitive verb 
① Technology 用螺丝固定 yòng luósī gùdìng ‹piece of wood, metal plate›to screw [something] on to [something]; 把某物用螺丝固定在某物上 
② (twist) 拧紧 nǐngjǐn ‹screw, threaded part›to screw [something] into [something]; 把某物拧入某物 
③ (distort) 扭曲 niǔqū ‹face›
④ colloquial (extort, extract) 勒索 lèsuǒ to screw [something] out of [somebody]; 向某人勒索某物 it took the threat of strike action to screw concessions out of the management 以罢工相威胁才迫使资方作出了让步 
⑤ colloquial (swindle) 诈骗 zhàpiàn 
⑥ colloquial (thwart) 搅乱 jiǎoluàn ‹system›
⑦ vulg (have sex with) 与…性交 yǔ… xìngjiāo 
⑧ vulg (damn) (in insults) 让…见鬼去 ràng… jiànguǐ qù screw you! 去你妈的！ screw the government! 让政府见鬼去吧！ 
C.  intransitive verb 
① Technology 拧上 nǐngshang to screw into or on to [something]; 拧到某物上 
② vulg (have sex) 交媾 jiāogòu PHRASAL VERBS screw around intransitive verb 
① vulg (sleep around) 乱交 luànjiāo 
② AmE colloquial (joke) 胡闹 húnào quit screwing around! I'm being serious! 别闹了！我是认真的！ screw in 
A.  transitive verb[screw something in, screw in something] 把…拧上 bǎ… nǐngshang ‹screw, bolt›
B.  intransitive verb 拧上 nǐngshang screw off 
A.  transitive verb[screw something off, screw off something] 拧掉 nǐngdiào ‹cap, lid›
B.  intransitive verb «cap, lid» 旋开 xuánkāi screw on 
A.  transitive verb[screw something on, screw on something] 拧上 nǐngshang ‹cap, lid, handle›to have one's head screwed on (the right way) colloquial 头脑清醒 
B.  intransitive verb «cap, lid, handle» 拧上 nǐngshang screw round transitive verb[screw something round] 把…转过来 bǎ… zhuàn guolai to screw oneself/one's head round 转身/扭过头来 screw together 
A.  transitive verb[screw something together, screw together something] 把…拧在一起 bǎ…nǐng zài yīqǐ ‹parts›
B.  intransitive verb «parts» 拧在一起 nǐng zài yīqǐ screw up 
A.  transitive verb[screw something up, screw up something] 
① (tighten) 拧紧 nǐngjǐn ‹screw, nut›
② (crumple) 把…揉成团 bǎ… róuchéng tuán ‹paper, handkerchief›she screwed up her eyes because of the glare of the lights 亮光刺得她眯起了眼睛 don't screw your face up like that, try to look natural 别那样绷着脸，自然一点吧 
③ colloquial (mess up) 搞砸 gǎozá ‹plan, project›
④ colloquial (make unhappy) 使心烦意乱 shǐ xīn fán yì luàn 
⑤ (summon) 振作 zhènzuò to screw up one's courage (to do [something]) 鼓起勇气（做某事） 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (become tighter) «nut» 拧紧 nǐngjǐn 
② especially AmE colloquial (mess up) 搞砸 gǎozá 
screw 
skro͞o

▶noun
1 a short, slender, sharp-pointed metal pin with a raised helical thread running around it and a slotted head, used to join things together by being rotated so that it pierces wood or other material and is held tightly in place.screws 
• a cylinder with a helical ridge or thread running around the outside (a male screw) that can be turned to seal an opening, apply pressure, adjust position, etc., especially one fitting into a corresponding internally grooved or threaded piece (a female screw). 
• (the screws) historical an instrument of torture having the action of a screw. 
• (also screw propeller) a ship's or aircraft's propeller (considered as acting like a screw in moving through water or air).
2 an act of turning a screw or other object having a thread. 
• British Billiards another term for draw. 
• British a small twisted-up piece of paper, used as a container for a substance such as salt or tobacco.
3 informal a prisoner's derogatory term for a prison guard or warden.
4 [in singular] vulgar slang an act of sexual intercourse. 
• [with adjective] a sexual partner of a specified ability.
5 [in singular] British informal, dated an amount of salary or wages: he's offered me the job with a jolly good screw.
6 British archaic, informal a mean or miserly person.
7 British informal a worn-out horse. 
▶verb
1 [with object] fasten or tighten with a screw or screws: screw the hinge to your new door. 
• rotate (something) so as to fit it into or on to a surface or object by means of a spiral thread: Philip screwed the top on the flask. 
• [no object] (of an object) be attached or removed by being rotated in this way: a connector that screws on to the gas cylinder. 
• (screw something around) turn one's head or body around sharply: he screwed his head around to try and find the enemy.
2 [with object] (usually be screwed) informal cheat or swindle (someone), especially by charging them too much for something: if you do what they tell you, you're screwed 
we ended up getting more money than what they were trying to screw us for. 
• (screw something out of) extort or force something, especially money, from (someone) by putting them under strong pressure: your grandmother screwed cash out of him for ten years.
3 [with object] vulgar slang have sexual intercourse with. 
• [no object] (of a couple) have sexual intercourse. 
• [in imperative] used to express anger or contempt: I saw red and thought, ‘Screw you!’
4 [with object] British another term for draw ( sense
8 of the verb). 
PHRASES
have one's head screwed on (the right way) informal have common sense.have a screw loose informal be slightly eccentric or mentally disturbed. put the screws on informal exert strong psychological pressure on (someone) so as to intimidate them into doing something. a turn of the screw informal an additional degree of pressure or hardship added to a situation that is already extremely difficult to bear. turn (or tighten) the screw (or screws) informal exert strong pressure on someone.PHRASAL VERBS screw around
1 vulgar slang have many different sexual partners.
2 informal fool around. screw someone over informal treat someone unfairly; cheat or swindle someone. screw up informal, chiefly North American completely mismanage or mishandle a situation: I'm sorry, Susan, I screwed up. screw someone up informal cause someone to be emotionally or mentally disturbed: this job can really screw you up. screw something up
1 tense the muscles of one's face or around one's eyes, typically so as to register an emotion or because of bright light.
2 informal cause something to fail or go wrong: why are you trying to screw up your life?
3 summon up one's courage: now Stephen had to screw up his courage and confess.DERIVATIVES screwable adjective. screwer nounORIGIN late Middle English (as a noun): from Old French escroue ‘female screw, nut,’ from Latin scrofa, literally ‘sow,’ later ‘screw.’ The early sense of the verb was ‘contort (the features), twist around’ (late 16th century).
