screen 
BrE skriːn, AmE skrin 

A.  noun 
① (panel, partition) (movable) 屏风 píngfēng (fixed) 围屏 wéipíng there were screens over the windows to keep out mosquitoes 窗户上装了防蚊的纱窗 a bullet-proof glass screen 防弹玻璃屏 a screen of trees/bushes 树木/灌木丛屏障 the main column advanced behind a screen of cavalry or a cavalry screen 主力纵队在骑兵的掩护下向前推进 
② Cinema, Photography 银幕 yínmù the (big) screen 电影 a screen role/actor/debut 电影角色/演员/首映 
③ Television, Computing 屏幕 píngmù a television/radar screen 电视/雷达屏幕 a 20-inch screen 20英寸屏幕 
④ (sieve) 粗筛 cūshāi 
B.  transitive verb 
① (conceal) 遮蔽 zhēbì ‹window, door›(protect) 保护 bǎohù ‹person›to screen [something] from [something]; 使某物遮挡住某物 we're pretty well screened from the wind by the railway embankment 铁路路基为我们挡了很多风 to screen [somebody]/[something] from sight or view 把某人/某物隐藏起来 his friend had often screened him from punishment 他的朋友经常庇护他免受惩罚 
② Cinema, Television 播放 bōfàng ‹programme›; 放映 fàngyìng ‹film›
③ (sieve) 筛 shāi ‹gravel, compost›
④ (subject to a test) 筛选 shāixuǎn ‹candidates, applicants, staff›Medicine 筛查 shāichá ‹patients›to screen women for cervical cancer 为妇女做宫颈癌筛查 PHRASAL VERBS screen off transitive verb[screen somebody/something off, screen off somebody/something] 隔开 gékāi I'm planting some bushes to screen that part of the garden off 我在种一点灌木，想把花园的那一部分隔出去 screen out transitive verb[screen somebody/something out, screen out somebody/something] 把…排除在外 bǎ… páichú zài wài ‹troublemakers, undesirables›; 遮挡 zhēdǎng ‹light, noise›; 筛除 shāichú ‹unwanted data, nuisance calls›a set of electronic filters screens out any interference 一套电子过滤器可以筛除所有干扰 
screen 
▶noun
1 he dressed hurriedly behind the screen: partition, (room) divider.
2 a computer with a 15-inch screen: display, monitor, flat screen, video display terminal, VDT, cathode ray tube, CR
T. 
3 the screen keeps out mosquitoes: mesh, net, netting.
4 the hedge acts as a screen against the wind: buffer, protection, shield, shelter, guard, windbreak.
5 sift the dirt through a screen: sieve, riddle, strainer, colander, filter.
▶verb
1 the end of the hall had been screened off: partition, divide, separate, curtain.
2 the cottage was screened by the trees: conceal, hide, veil; shield, shelter, shade, protect, guard, safeguard.
3 the prospective candidates will have to be screened: vet, check, check up on, investigate; informal check out.
4 all donated blood is screened for the virus: check, test, examine, investigate.
5 coal used to be screened by hand: sieve, riddle, sift, strain, filter, winnow.
6 the program is screened on Thursday evenings: show, broadcast, transmit, air, televise, telecast, put on the air.
