season 
BrE ˈsiːz(ə)n, AmE ˈsizən 

A.  noun 
① (time of year) 季节 jìjié the four seasons 四季 the dry/rainy season 旱季/雨季 
② (for particular activity) 时节 shíjié the growing/planting season 生长/种植季节 the mating/breeding season 交配/繁殖季节 to be in/out of season 当令/不当令 vegetables in season 时令蔬菜 nowadays you can get apples in and out of season 现在一年四季都能买到苹果 the tourist season 旅游旺季 the football/cricket/rugby season 足球/板球/橄榄球赛季 the hunting/fishing season 狩猎期/渔汛期 
③ (holiday period) 节期 jiéqī the Christmas season 圣诞节期 Season's greetings! (on Christmas card) 圣诞快乐！ the season of Advent/Lent 降临节/大斋节期 the season of good will 圣诞节 
④ Radio, Television, Theatre 上演期 shàngyǎnqī a Shaw/Beethoven season 萧伯纳/贝多芬作品演出季 
⑤ dated (period of social activity) the season 社交季节 ［传统上英国上层社会进行时尚社交活动的时期］shèjiāo jìjié 
⑥ (suitable moment) 时机 shíjī to every thing there is a season literary 万物皆有时 
⑦ (period of sexual receptivity) [雌性哺乳动物的] 发情期 fāqíngqī to come into season 发情 
⑧ colloquial (season ticket) 季票 jìpiào 
B.  transitive verb 
① (prepare by drying) 风干处理 fēnggān chǔlǐ ‹timber›(prepare by steeping) 浸泡处理 jìnpào chǔlǐ ‹cask›(prepare for use) 用油润 yòng yóu rùn ‹pan›
② Culinary 给…加作料 gěi… jiā zuòliao a well-seasoned dish 味道调得极好的一道菜 
③ figurative literary (enliven) 为…增添趣味 wèi… zēngtiān qùwèi a speech seasoned with wit 妙趣横生的演讲 
season 
ˈsēzən

▶noun
1 each of the four divisions of the year (spring, summer, autumn, and winter) marked by particular weather patterns and daylight hours, resulting from the earth's changing position with regard to the sun. 
• a period of the year characterized by a particular climatic feature or marked by a particular activity, event, or festivity: the rainy season 
the season for gathering pine needles. 
• a fixed time in the year when a particular sport is played: basketball season is over. 
• the time of year when a particular fruit, vegetable, or other food is plentiful and in good condition: the pies are made with fruit that is in season 
lobster season. 
• archaic a proper or suitable time: to everything there is a season. 
• archaic an indefinite or unspecified period of time; a while: this most beautiful soul, who walked with me for a season in this world.
2 chiefly North American a set or sequence of related television programs: the first two seasons of the show.
3 a period when a female mammal is ready to mate: the bitch can come into season at irregular intervals. 
▶verb [with object]
1 add salt, herbs, pepper, or other spices to (food): season the soup to taste with salt and pepper. 
• add a quality or feature to (something), especially so as to make it more lively or exciting: his conversation is seasoned liberally with exclamation points and punch lines.
2 make (wood) suitable for use as timber by adjusting its moisture content to that of the environment in which it will be used. 
PHRASES
for all seasons suitable in or appropriate for every kind of weather: a coat for all seasons. 
• adaptable to any circumstance: a singer for all seasons. in season
1 (of a fruit, vegetable, or other food) grown or available at the time of year in question: buy fruit and vegetables that are in season.
2 (of a female mammal) ready to mate: this system of communication works very well, especially when a female is in season.
3 archaic at the right or proper time: they arrive in season for the meeting. out of season
1 (of a fruit, vegetable, or other food) not grown or available at the time of year in question: oranges are out of season 
customer demand for out of season crops.
2 at the time of year when a place is less popular or fashionable : English seaside resorts out of season famously possess a melancholy charm 
it had the feel of an out of season ski resort. season's greetings used as an expression of goodwill at Christmas or the New Year.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French seson, from Latin satio(n-) ‘sowing,’ later ‘time of sowing,’ from the root of serere ‘to sow.’
