secure 
BrE sɪˈkjʊə, sɪˈkjɔː, AmE səˈkjʊr 
A. adjective 
① (firmly fixed) 牢固的 láogù de ‹structure, ladder›to make [something] secure 把某物弄牢固 she made the rope secure around the trunk of a tree 她把绳子牢牢地系在树干上 
② (protected) 安全的 ānquán de ‹place, hideout›; 稳定的 wěndìng de ‹job, income›to be secure against or from [something]; 不受某事物的威胁 make sure the house is secure before you leave it 出门前确保把门窗关好 is your pension secure against inflation? 你的养老金不会受通货膨胀的影响吗？ 
③ (untroubled) 安宁的 ānníng de ‹feeling, family background›he didn't feel secure on his own 他自己一个人感觉不太踏实 to be secure in the knowledge that … 知道…而感到踏实 
B.  transitive verb 
① (fix or fasten firmly) 系牢 jìláo ‹rope›; 关紧 guānjǐn ‹door, window›
② (make safe) 保护 bǎohù ‹house, premises›; 使…稳固 shǐ… wěngù ‹position›
③ Finance 为…担保 wèi… dānbǎo ‹debt›the loan is secured on your house 这笔贷款是拿你的住房作抵押的 
④ (acquire) 获得 huòdé ‹position, funds, consent›
secure 
▶adjective
1 check to ensure that all bolts are secure: fastened, fixed, secured, done up; closed, shut, locked. ANTONYMS loose.
2 an environment in which children can feel secure: safe, protected, protected from harm/danger, out of danger, sheltered, safe and sound, out of harm's way, in a safe place, in safe hands, guarded, invulnerable; at ease, unworried, relaxed, happy, confident. ANTONYMS vulnerable.
3 a secure investment: certain, assured, reliable, dependable, settled, fixed. ANTONYMS uncertain.
▶verb
1 pins secure the handle to the main body: fix, attach, fasten, affix, connect, couple.
2 the doors had not been properly secured: fasten, close, shut, lock, bolt, chain, seal.
3 he leapt out to secure the boat: tie up, moor, make fast; anchor.
4 they sought to secure the country against attack: protect, make safe, fortify, strengthen; undergird.
5 a written constitution would secure the rights of the individual: assure, ensure, guarantee, protect, confirm, establish.
6 the division secured a major contract: obtain, acquire, gain, get, get possession of; informal get hold of, land.WORD TOOLKIT See protected .Word Toolkits illustrate the difference between close synonyms by means of words typically used with them.CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD See get .These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
