seed 
BrE siːd, AmE sid 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(fruit pip) 籽 zǐ ; (for sowing) 种子 zhǒngzi the pod bursts, and the seeds are scattered 豆荚爆裂，豆粒散落一地 grape/pomegranate seeds 葡萄籽/石榴籽 a packet of seed(s) 一包种子 to sow the seeds in a shallow trench 在浅沟里播种 to go or run to seed «plant» 花谢结籽 figurative «person» 衰败 shuāibài 
② Countablefigurative (beginning) 萌芽 méngyá the seeds of doubt were already sown in her mind 她的头脑中已经埋下了怀疑的种子 
③ CountableSport 种子选手 zhǒngzi xuǎnshǒu the top or first seed 头号种子选手 
④ Uncountablearchaic (descendants) 后裔 hòuyì 
B.  transitive verb 
① (sow) 在…播种 zài… bōzhǒng ‹bed, lawn›to seed a field with rye 在地里播下黑麦种子 
② (remove seeds from) 去掉…的籽 qùdiào… de zǐ ‹grape, raisin›
③ Meteorology 催…化雨 cuī… huà yǔ ‹clouds›
④ Sport 确定…为种子选手 quèdìng… wéi zhǒngzi xuǎnshǒu ‹player›a seeded player 种子选手 zhǒngzi xuǎnshǒu 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (produce seeds) 结籽 jiē zǐ mulch encourages plants to seed freely 护根能促进植物顺利结实 
② (sow seeds) 播种 bōzhǒng I have seeded along the edge of the lawn 我沿着草坪的边缘撒了种子 
D.  reflexive verb to seed itself 靠自身种子繁殖 kào zìshēn zhǒngzi fánzhí 
seed 
sēd

▶noun
1 a flowering plant's unit of reproduction, capable of developing into another such plant. 
• a quantity of these: grass seed 
you can grow artichokes from seed. 
• the cause or latent beginning of a feeling, process, or condition: the conversation sowed a tiny seed of doubt in his mind. 
• archaic (chiefly in biblical use) a person's offspring or descendants. 
• a man's semen. 
• (also seed crystal) a small crystal introduced into a liquid to act as a nucleus for crystallization. 
• a small container for radioactive material placed in body tissue during radiotherapy.
2 any of a number of stronger competitors in a sports tournament who have been assigned a specified position in an ordered list with the aim of ensuring that they do not play each other in the early rounds: he knocked the top seed out of the championships. 
▶verb
1 [with object] sow (land) with seeds: the shoreline is seeded with a special grass. 
• sow (a particular kind of seed) on or in the ground. 
• cause (something) to begin to develop or grow: severance payouts that help seed their new businesses. 
• place a crystal or crystalline substance in (something) in order to cause crystallization or condensation (especially in a cloud to produce rain).
2 [no object] (of a plant) produce or drop seeds: mulches encourage many plants to seed freely. 
• (seed itself) (of a plant) reproduce itself by means of its own seeds: feverfew will seed itself readily.
3 [with object] remove the seeds from (vegetables or fruit): stem and seed the chilies.
4 [with object] give (a competitor) the status of seed in a tournament: [with complement] : Jeff Tarango, seeded five, was defeated by fellow American Todd Witsken. 
PHRASES
go (or run) to seed (of a plant) cease flowering as the seeds develop. 
• deteriorate in condition, strength, or efficiency: Mark knows he has allowed himself to go to seed.ORIGIN Old English sǣd, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch zaad,German Saat, also to the verb sow1 .
