seize 
BrE siːz, AmE siz 

A.  transitive verb 
① literal (take hold of) 抓住 zhuāzhù to seize hold of [somebody]/[something]; 抓住某人/某物 to seize [somebody] around the waist 揽住某人的腰 to seize [somebody] by the arm/hair 揪住某人的胳膊/头发 
② figurative (make use of, grasp) 利用 lìyòng to seize an opportunity to … 抓住机会来… to seize the initiative 把握主动 
③ figurative (affect) 攫住 juézhù to be seized by fear/pain 感到一阵恐惧/疼痛 seized by or with a sudden impulse 一时冲动 I was seized by a sudden desire to tell her everything 我突然想把一切都告诉她 
④ Military (capture) 夺取 duóqǔ rebel troops seized the television station 叛军占领了电视台 
⑤ (kidnap, abduct) 绑架 bǎngjià 
⑥ (confiscate) 没收 mòshōu ; (apprehend, arrest) 拘押 jūyā 
B.  intransitive verb = seize up PHRASAL VERBS seize on transitive verb = seize upon seize up intransitive verb 
① (cease to operate) «engine, mechanism» 停止运转 tíngzhǐ yùnzhuǎn ; «piston» 卡住 qiǎzhù 
② (stop moving) 活动困难 huódòng kùnnan my back has seized up 我的背发僵 seize upon transitive verb[seize upon something] 抓住…以利用 zhuāzhù… yǐ lìyòng he immediately seized upon the weakness in the argument 他一下子抓住了论点中的漏洞 
seize 
sēz

▶verb
1 [with object] take hold of suddenly and forcibly: she jumped up and seized his arm 
she seized hold of the door handle. 
• take forcible possession of: army rebels seized an air force base 
the current president seized power in a coup. 
• (of the police or another authority) take possession of (something) by warrant or legal right; confiscate; impound: police have seized 726 lb of cocaine. 
• take (an opportunity or initiative) eagerly and decisively: he seized his chance to attack as Delaney hesitated. 
• (of a feeling or pain) affect (someone) suddenly or acutely: he was seized by the most dreadful fear. 
• strongly appeal to or attract (the imagination or attention): the story of the king's escape seized the public imagination. 
• formal understand (something) quickly or clearly: he always strains to seize the most somber truths.
2 [no object] (of a machine with moving parts or a moving part in a machine) become stuck or jammed: the engine seized up after only three weeks.
3 (also seise) (be seized of) English Law be in legal possession of: the court is currently seized of custody applications. 
• historical have or receive freehold possession of (property): any person who is seized of land has a protected interest in that land. 
• be aware or informed of: the judge was fully seized of the point.
4 Nautical, archaic fasten or attach (someone or something) to something by binding with turns of rope. 
PHRASES
seize the day make the most of the present moment. [see carpe diem .]PHRASAL VERBS seize on/upon take eager advantage of (something); exploit for one's own purposes: the government has eagerly seized on the evidence to deny any link between deprivation and crime.DERIVATIVES seizable 
ˈsēzəb(ə)l 
adjective. seizer nounORIGIN Middle English: from Old French seizir ‘give seisin,’ from medieval Latin sacire, in the phrase ad proprium sacire ‘claim as one's own,’ from a Germanic base meaning ‘procedure.’
