senior 
BrE ˈsiːnɪə, ˈsiːnjə, AmE ˈsinjər 

A.  adjective 
① (older) 年长的 niánzhǎng de to be senior to [somebody] (by … years); 比某人年长（…岁） 
② (superior) 较高的 jiào gāo de ‹rank›(in rank) 级别较高的 jíbié jiào gāo de ‹appointment›(in status) 地位较高的 dìwèi jiào gāo de to be senior to [somebody]; 是某人的上级 
③ ( also Senior); especially AmE (in name) [表示同名者中较年长者，两者多为父子] 老 lǎo, 大 dà Bob Mortimer senior 老鲍勃‧莫蒂默 
④ BrE School 高年级的 gāoniánjí de [尤指11岁以上]
⑤ AmE School, University 毕业年级的 bìyè niánjí de 
⑥ Sport 成人的 chéngrén de the senior men's 400 metres 男子甲组400米赛跑 
B.  noun 
① (older person) 年长者 niánzhǎngzhě to be [somebody's] senior by ten years 比某人年长10岁 
② (superior) (in rank) 级别较高者 jíbié jiào gāo zhě (in status) 地位较高者 dìwèi jiào gāo zhě colleagues and seniors 同事与上司 
③ BrE School 高年级学生 gāoniánjí xuésheng 
④ AmE School, University 毕业年级学生 bìyè niánjí xuésheng 
senior 
▶adjective
1 the senior students can get parking permits: older, elder. ANTONYMS junior.
2 a senior officer: superior, higher-ranking, high-ranking, more important; top, chief, ranking, high-status. ANTONYMS junior, subordinate.
3 Albert Stone, Senior: Sr., the Elder, the First, 
I.  ANTONYMS Junior, Jr..
▶noun
1 Angela is a senior at Cal Tech 
the seniors are sponsoring a concert: senior student, fourth-year student; (seniors) graduating class.
2 the quilts are made by a group of seniors at our church. See senior citizen. REFLECTIONS David Lehmansenior "Commencement" They're calling old people seniors short for senior citizens but it's as though they're still in college and can look forward to graduate school at Purgatory State or the University of the Damned and I can see this poem is intent on being Catholic though it started out agnostic Maybe that's because I was talking to Ed Webster on the phone tonight and he described himself as an agnostic who got a job teaching at a Catholic school in the South Bronx or maybe because I was reading the classifieds in the Daily News today and several greeted dead ones in heaven in any case I like seniors maybe the rest of us are juniors and sophomores and we still have the junior prom and all that romantic angst to go through before we reach the holy land.Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
