sense 
BrE sɛns, AmE sɛns 

A.  noun 
① Countable(faculty) 感官 gǎnguān the five senses 五种感官 a sixth sense 第六感 to bring [somebody] to his or her senses 使某人恢复知觉 to come to one's senses 恢复知觉 
② Uncountable(ability to appreciate) 理解力 lǐjiělì a sense of right and wrong/justice/duty 是非感/正义感/责任感 a sense of humour or fun 幽默感 
③ Uncountable(feeling) 感觉 gǎnjué a sense of guilt/shame 负罪感/羞耻感 a strong sense of foreboding 强烈的不祥预感 a sense of belonging/security 归属感/安全感 
④ Uncountable(practical quality) 判断力 pànduànlì a man quite devoid of sense 一个缺少见识的男人 a grain of sense 一点见识 good sense 明智 there's some/a lot of sense in what he suggests 他的建议有些/很有道理 to beat or knock or drive (some) sense into [somebody] colloquial 强使某人开（点）窍 
⑤ senses plural (sanity) 理智 lǐzhì to lose/regain one's senses 丧失/恢复理智 to bring [somebody] to his or her senses 使某人清醒过来 to come to one's senses 恢复理智 to be out of one's senses 失去理智 to take leave of one's senses 发疯 
⑥ Uncountable(reason) 合理性 hélǐxìng there's little sense in what he plans/says 他的计划/话几乎没什么道理 to make sense (be understandable) 有意义 (be sensible) 合乎情理 to make sense of [something] 理解某事物 can you make sense of this sentence? 你明白这个句子的意思吗？ to talk sense 说话有道理 to see sense 开始明白事理 
⑦ Countable(meaning) 意义 yìyì a word with several senses 多义词 it should not be understood in its literal sense 这不能从字面意义理解 to get or grasp the sense (of [something]) 领会（某事物的）意义 in a sense 从某种意义上讲 
⑧ Uncountable(general opinion) 意向 yìxiàng the sense of [something] formal 对某事物的一般看法 
B.  transitive verb 
① (feel, detect) 感觉到 gǎnjué dào I could sense somebody out there in the darkness 我感觉到黑暗中有人出现 I could sense what was upsetting her 我能感到是什么事情在使她烦心 
② (detect) «sensor, system» 检测出 jiǎncè chū ‹movement, heat›
③ Computing (locate) 探出 tànchū ‹position›(read) 读取 dúqǔ ‹data›
sense 
sens

▶noun
1 a faculty by which the body perceives an external stimulus; one of the faculties of sight, smell, hearing, taste, and touch: the bear has a keen sense of smell that enables it to hunt at dusk.
2 a feeling that something is the case: she had the sense of being a political outsider. 
• an awareness or feeling that one is in a specified state: you can improve your general health and sense of well-being. 
• (sense of) a keen intuitive awareness of or sensitivity to the presence or importance of something: she had a fine sense of comic timing.
3 a sane and realistic attitude to situations and problems: he earned respect by the good sense he showed at meetings. 
• a reasonable or comprehensible rationale: I can't see the sense in leaving all the work to you.
4 a way in which an expression or a situation can be interpreted; a meaning: it is not clear which sense of the word “characters” is intended in this passage.
5 chiefly Mathematics & Physics a property, e.g., direction of motion, distinguishing a pair of objects, quantities, effects, etc., that differ only in that each is the reverse of the other. 
• [as modifier] Genetics relating to or denoting a coding sequence of nucleotides, complementary to an antisense sequence. 
▶verb [with object] perceive by a sense or senses: with the first frost, they could sense a change in the days. 
• be aware of: she could sense her father's anger rising. 
• [with clause] be aware that something is the case without being able to define exactly how one knows: he could sense that he wasn't liked. 
• (of a machine or similar device) detect: an optical fiber senses a current flowing in a conductor. 
PHRASES
bring someone to their (or come to one's) senses restore someone to (or regain) consciousness. 
• cause someone to (or start to) think and behave reasonably after a period of folly or irrationality. in a (or one) sense used to indicate a particular interpretation of a statement or situation: in a sense, behavior cannot develop independently of the environment. in one's senses fully aware and in control of one's thoughts and words; sane: would any man in his senses invent so absurd a story? make sense be intelligible, justifiable, or practicable. make sense of find meaning or coherence in: she must try to make sense of what was going on. out of one's senses in or into a state of insanity. take leave of one's senses (in hyperbolic use) go insane.ORIGIN late Middle English (as a noun in the sense ‘meaning’): from Latin sensus ‘faculty of feeling, thought, meaning,’ from sentire ‘feel.’ The verb dates from the mid 16th century.
