series 
BrE ˈsɪəriːz, AmE ˈsɪriz 
noun(plural series) 
① Countable(sequence) 一系列 yīxìliè a series of attacks/measures 一连串的袭击/一系列的措施 
② Countable(set) 一套 yī tào a series of stamps/coins/books 一套邮票/钱币/丛书 
③ Countable(on TV, radio) 系列节目 xìliè jiémù (in magazine, newspaper) 系列作品 xìliè zuòpǐn a drama/comedy series 系列剧/喜剧 paperback series 平装丛书 
④ UncountableElectricity, Electronics 串联 chuànlián in series 串联的 series circuit 串联电路 
series 
ˈsirēz

▶noun (plural same)
1 a number of things, events, or people of a similar kind or related nature coming one after another: the explosion was the latest in a series of accidents 
he gave a series of lectures on modern art. 
• a set of books, maps, periodicals, or other documents published in a common format or under a common title. 
• a set of games played between two teams, or among any number of individual competitors: a playoff series against Portland. See also World Series. 
• a set of stamps, banknotes, or coins issued at a particular time or having a common design or theme. 
• a line of products, especially vehicles or machines, sharing features of design or assembly and marketed with a separate number from other lines: early models of the 600D series incorporated a centrifugal oil filter 
a series III SWB Land Rover.
2 a set of related television or radio programs, especially of a specified kind: a new drama series.
3 [as modifier] denoting electrical circuits or components arranged so that the current passes through each successively. The opposite of parallel.
4 Music another term for tone row.
5 Geology (in chronostratigraphy) a range of strata corresponding to an epoch in time, being a subdivision of a system and itself subdivided into stages: the Pliocene series.
6 Chemistry a set of elements with common properties or of compounds related in composition or structure: the metals of the lanthanide series. Compare with period ( sense
5 of the noun).
7 Mathematics a set of quantities constituting a progression or having the several values determined by a common relation.
8 Phonetics a group of speech sounds having at least one phonetic feature in common but distinguished in other respects. 
PHRASES
in series (of a set of batteries or electrical components) arranged so that the current passes through each successively.ORIGIN early 17th century: from Latin, literally ‘row, chain,’ from serere ‘join, connect.’
