serve 
BrE səːv, AmE sərv 

A.  transitive verb 
① (work for) 伺候 cìhou ‹master, mistress›; 为…效力 wèi… xiàolì ‹company›; 侍奉 shìfèng ‹God›to serve the cause of freedom 为自由的事业而奋斗 to serve one's country/the public 为国家/公众服务 to serve Queen and Country 为女王和国家从军 to serve two masters 侍奉二主 
② (wait on) 招待 zhāodài ‹customer›have you served the people at table 11? 你为11号桌的客人服务了吗？ I can't serve you; you're under age 我不能卖酒给你；你还不到法定年龄 
③ (give) 端上 duānshang ‹food, wine›; (give food and drink to) 给…端上饭菜 gěi… duānshang fàncài ‹guest›let me serve you some more beef 我再给你添点儿牛肉 
④ (provide) 供应 gōngyìng ‹meal›we don't serve hot meals after nine o'clock 9点以后我们不卖热餐 dinner is served! 请来用餐！ to serve [somebody] [something]; 供应某人某食物 to serve [something] with [something]; 以某物配某物一起上 serves
4 (in recipe) 4人份 
⑤ (provide assistance, facility to) 为…提供服务 wèi… tígōng fúwù the library exists to serve the community/university 图书馆是为社区/大学服务的 towns not served by the railway 未通火车的城镇 we're very well served with shops in this district 我们这个地区购物很便利 
⑥ (be useful for) 对…有用 duì… yǒuyòng this old fountain pen has served me well over the years 这支旧钢笔我多年来用着都很好 her sense of direction served her well 她的方向感帮了她的大忙 to serve a purpose 派上用场 to serve the/[somebody's] purpose 满足需求/某人的需求 (it) serves you right figurative colloquial 你活该 
⑦ (spend) 度过 dùguo to serve a or one's term 任职一届 Eisenhower served two terms as President 艾森豪威尔担任了两届总统 to serve one's time (as apprentice) 当学徒 (in prison) 服刑 (in the armed forces) 服役 fúyì to serve time or a sentence 服刑 
⑧ Law 送达 sòngdá ‹summons, court order›to serve notice on [somebody] 向某人发出警告 
⑨ Sport (in tennis) 发 fā ‹ace, let›
⑩ «bull, stag» 与…配种 yǔ… pèizhǒng ‹cow, mare, deer›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (provide food and drink) 招待 zhāodài to serve at table 侍候进餐 I usually serve in the cocktail lounge 我通常在鸡尾酒酒吧间做招待 
② (work) 供职 gòngzhí to serve on a committee/jury 担任委员/陪审员 to serve as [something]; 担任某职务 
③ Military 服役 fúyì to serve in the army/navy 在陆军/海军服役 to serve as [something]; 担任某军职 
④ formal (meet a need) 有用 yǒuyòng any old excuse will serve when they're late 他们如果迟到了，随便说个老掉牙的理由就管用 this room serves as a spare bedroom 这个房间用作备用卧室 to serve to do [something]; 用来做某事 
⑤ Sport (in tennis) 发球 fāqiú to serve for the set/match 局点/赛点发球 
⑥ Religion 担任辅祭 dānrèn fǔjì 
C.  noun (in tennis) 发球 fāqiú he has a very big serve 他擅长大力发球 PHRASAL VERBS serve out transitive verb[serve something out, serve out something] 
① (distribute) 分发 fēnfā ‹provisions›
② (complete) 完成 wánchéng to serve out a or one's sentence 服满刑期 serve up 
A.  intransitive verb 上饭菜 shàng fàncài 
B.  transitive verb[serve something up, serve up something] 
① (put on to plates) 端上 duānshang ‹food, meal›
② pejorative (offer, present) 提供 tígōng they serve up the same old programmes week after week 他们一周又一周地重复播放老掉牙的节目 
serve 
sərv

▶verb [with object]
1 perform duties or services for (another person or an organization): Malcolm has served the church very faithfully. 
• provide (an area or group of people) with a product or service: a telecommunications company that serves southern New England. 
• [no object] be employed as a member of the armed forces: a military engineer who served with the army. 
• spend (a period) in office, in an apprenticeship, or in prison: he is serving a ten-year jail sentence.
2 present (food or drink) to someone: they serve wine instead of beer 
serve white wines chilled. 
• present (someone) with food or drink: I'll serve you with coffee and cake 
[with two objects] : Peter served them generous portions of soup. 
• (of food or drink) be enough for: the recipe serves four people. 
• attend to (a customer in a store): she turned to serve the impatient customer. 
• supply (goods) to a customer. 
• [no object] Christian Church act as a server at the celebration of the Eucharist. 
• [with two objects] archaic play (a trick) on (someone): I remember the trick you served me.
3 Law deliver (a document such as a summons or writ) in a formal manner to the person to whom it is addressed: a warrant was served on Jack Sherman. 
• deliver a document to (someone) in a formal manner: they were just about to serve him with a writ.
4 be of use in achieving or satisfying: this book will serve a useful purpose 
the union came into existence to serve the interests of musicians. 
• [no object] be of some specified use: the island's one pub serves as a cafe by day 
[with infinitive] : sweat serves to cool down the body. 
• function for or treat (someone) in a specified way: the strategy served him well. 
• (of a male breeding-animal) copulate with (a female).
5 [no object] (in tennis and other racket sports) hit the ball or shuttlecock to begin play: he tossed the ball up to serve 
[with object] : serve the ball onto the front wall.
6 Nautical bind (a rope) with thin cord to protect or strengthen it.
7 Military operate (a gun): before long Lodge was the only man in his section able to serve the guns. 
▶noun (in tennis and other racket sports) an act or turn of hitting the ball or shuttlecock to start play: he was let down by an erratic serve. 
PHRASES
if my memory serves me if I remember correctly.serve at table act as a waiter. serve someone right be someone's deserved punishment or misfortune: it would serve you right if Jeff walked out on you. serve one's time (also serve out one's time) hold office for the normal period. 
• (also serve time) spend time in office, in an apprenticeship, or in prison. serve two masters take orders from two superiors or follow two conflicting or opposing principles or policies at the same time. [with biblical allusion to Matt. 6:24.]PHRASAL VERBS serve out Tennis win the final game of a set or match while serving: Fitzgerald then served out for the set.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French servir, from Latin servire, from servus ‘slave.’
