service 
BrE ˈsəːvɪs, AmE ˈsərvəs 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(by employee, supplier) 效劳 xiàoláo (in army) 服役 fúyì years of service 工作年限 a life of (public) service （为公众）服务的一生 ten years' service in the army 在部队服役10年 at [somebody's] service 听候某人吩咐 he gave his life in the service of his country 他为国捐躯 can I be of service? 我能帮忙吗？ on Her Majesty's service 为女王陛下效劳 before noun Military 军队的 jūnduì de ‹personnel, life›service pay 军饷 (for employees or servants) 供员工或下人使用的 gōng yuángōng huò xiàrén shǐyòng de ‹entrance, stairs›
② Uncountable(attention, assistance) 接待 jiēdài we add on 10% for service 我们加收10％的服务费 service to the customer/client 为顾客/客户提供的服务 
③ Uncountable(use) 使用 shǐyòng this coat should be good for a lifetime's service 这件外套能穿一辈子 the van has given me excellent service, I've had excellent service from the van 那辆运货车帮了我大忙 to be in service 在使用中 to come into or enter service 开始被采用 to go out of service 被停用 
④ Countable(favour) 帮助 bāngzhù to do [somebody] a service 帮某人个忙 
⑤ CountableBusn 服务 fúwù a dry-cleaning/money-changing service 干洗/货币兑换服务 it's all part of the service 这是分内事 we badly need the services of a good accountant 我们急需一名优秀的会计 for services rendered 服务费 fúwùfèi 
⑥ Countable(government department) 行政部门 xíngzhèng bùmén the customs/diplomatic/health service 海关/外交/卫生部门 the emergency services 应急部门 
⑦ CountableMilitary 军种 jūnzhǒng high-ranking officers from (each of) the three services 来自陆海空三军的高级军官 the services 军队 he joined the service at the age of
18 他18岁参军 
⑧ CountableTransport 交通服务 jiāotōng fúwù a bus/train/ferry service 公共汽车/火车/轮渡运输服务 it's a
10 minute service on this route 这条线路每隔10分钟发一班车 
⑨ Uncountable and countableAuto (maintenance) 检修 jiǎnxiū 
⑩ CountableReligion 宗教仪式 zōngjiào yíshì morning/evening service 晨祷/晚祷 a wedding/funeral service 婚礼/葬礼 
⑪ Countable(dinner set) 成套餐具 chéngtào cānjù a silver tea service 一套银质茶具 
⑫ Countable(in tennis) 发球 fāqiú return of service 接发球 
⑬ CountableLaw (of summons, warrant, writ) 正式送达 zhèngshì sòngdá 
⑭ services plural BrE (on motorway) [高速公路旁的] 服务区 fúwùqū 
B.  transitive verb 
① (do maintenance on) 检修 jiǎnxiū ‹machine, car›
② Finance 支付…的利息 zhīfù… de lìxī ‹debt, loan›
service 
ˈsərvəs

▶noun
1 the action of helping or doing work for someone: millions are involved in voluntary service. 
• an act of assistance: he has done us a great service 
he volunteered his services as a driver. 
• assistance or advice given to customers during and after the sale of goods: they aim to provide better quality of service. 
• the action or process of serving food and drinks to customers: they complained of poor bar service. 
• short for service charge: service is included in the final bill. 
• a period of employment with a company or organization: he retired after 40 years' service. 
• employment as a servant: the pitifully low wages gained from domestic service. See also in service below. 
• the use that can be made of a machine: the computer should provide good service for years. 
• a periodic routine inspection and maintenance of a vehicle or other machine: he took his car in for service 
they phoned for service on their air conditioning. 
• (the services) the armed forces: troops from all branches of the services 
(as modifier service) : service personnel. 
• (services) chiefly British an area with parking beside a major road supplying gasoline, refreshments, and other amenities to motorists.
2 a system supplying a public need such as transport, communications, or utilities such as electricity and water: a regular bus service. 
• a public department or organization run by the government: the 
U. 
S.  Fish and Wildlife Service.
3 a ceremony of religious worship according to a prescribed form; the prescribed form for such a ceremony: a funeral service.
4 [with modifier] a set of matching dishes and utensils used for serving a particular meal: a dinner service.
5 (in tennis and other racket sports) the action or right of serving to begin play. 
• a serve.
6 Law the formal delivery of a document such as a writ or summons. 
▶verb [with object]
1 perform routine maintenance or repair work on (a vehicle or machine): have your car serviced regularly. 
• supply and maintain systems for public utilities and transportation and communications in (an area): the town is small but well serviced. 
• perform a service or services for (someone): the state's biggest health maintenance organization servicing the poor. 
• pay interest on (a debt): taxpayers are paying $250 million just to service that debt.
2 (of a male animal) mate with (a female animal). 
• vulgar slang have sexual intercourse with or give sexual gratification to (someone). 
PHRASES
be at someone's service be ready to assist someone whenever possible. be of service be available to assist someone. in service
1 in or available for use.
2 dated employed as a servant. out of service not available for use. see service serve in the armed forces: he saw service in both world wars. 
• be used: the building later saw service as a blacksmith's shop.ORIGIN Old English (denoting religious devotion or a form of liturgy), from Old French servise or Latin servitium ‘slavery,’ from servus ‘slave.’ The early sense of the verb (mid 19th century) was ‘be of service to, provide with a service.’
