settle
1 
BrE ˈsɛt(ə)l, AmE ˈsɛdl 

A.  intransitive verb 
① (come to rest) «bird, insect» 飞落 fēiluò ; «dust» 落下 luòxia it's snowing quite hard, but it's not settling 雪下得很大，但并未在地面上堆积起来 to settle on [something]; 落在某物上 dust soon began to settle on the furniture 家具很快就蒙上了灰尘 silence settled over the room 屋子里陷入了寂静 
② (subside, drop) «building, grounds, dregs» 沉降 chénjiàng the contents of the packet may have settled in transit 包裹里的东西可能在运输途中摇晃密实了 the ship settled in the water 轮船沉到了水底 
③ (become calm) «baby» 平静下来 píngjìng xialai let your lunch settle before swimming 午饭后消化一下再游泳 
④ (take up residence) «family, emigrant, colonist» 定居 dìngjū 
⑤ (pay bill, debt) 付清欠款 fùqīng qiànkuǎn to settle out of court 在庭外和解 to settle with [somebody]; 和某人算账 
B.  transitive verb 
① (position) 安放 ānfàng ‹object›; 安顿 āndùn ‹person›to settle an invalid or get an invalid settled for the night 让病人安然过夜 Percy settled himself in an armchair 珀西舒舒服服地坐在扶手椅里 
② (keep down) 使…沉降 shǐ… chénjiàng ‹sediment, dregs›
③ (calm) 放松 fàngsōng ‹nerves›; 消除 xiāochú ‹doubts›
④ (resolve) 解决 jiějué ‹dispute, conflict, question›; 达成 dáchéng ‹terms, details›the game was settled in the first half 比赛结果在上半场就见分晓了 to settle one's affairs 料理事务 that settles it! 就这么定了！ to settle [something] with [somebody]; 和某人协商解决某事 settle it amongst yourselves 你们自行解决 
⑤ (pay) 付清 fùqīng ‹bill, account, debt›
⑥ (colonize) 定居于 dìngjū yú ‹area, country›
⑦ (give land or housing to) 安置 ānzhì ‹people, immigrants›
⑧ colloquial (stop from causing trouble) 使…就范 shǐ… jiùfàn ‹youngster, mischief-maker›PHRASAL VERBS settle back intransitive verb (relax) 处于舒适位置 chǔyú shūshì wèizhi I settled back in my chair 我舒舒服服地在椅子上坐下 settle down 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (make oneself comfortable) 歇息 xiēxi to settle down to do [something]; 坐下来做某事 everybody settled down to listen to the music 大家都坐下来听音乐 it's time to settle down for the night 到了晚上睡觉的时间了 
② to settle down to [something] (apply oneself to) 开始认真对待某事物 kāishǐ rènzhēn duìdài mǒu shìwù 
③ (calm down) «person, situation, country» 平静下来 píngjìng xialai 
④ (marry) 成家 chéngjiā 
⑤ (become more stable) 过安定的生活 guò āndìng de shēnghuó 
B.  transitive verb 
① [settle somebody down] (into sitting position) 使舒服地坐下 shǐ shūfu de zuòxia (into recumbent position) 使舒服地躺下 shǐ shūfu de tǎngxia 
② [settle something down] (make calm) 使平静下来 shǐ píngjìng xialai settle for transitive verb[settle for something] 勉强接受 miǎnqiǎng jiēshòu ‹second best, second-rate job›settle in intransitive verb 安顿下来 āndùn xiàlai settle into transitive verb[settle into something] 适应 shìyìng ‹routine, role›settle on transitive verb 
① [settle on something/somebody] (choose) 选定 xuǎndìng 
② to settle [something] on [somebody] (bequeath) 把某物遗赠给某人 bǎ mǒu wù yízèng gěi mǒu rén settle up intransitive verb 
① (pay up) 付清账目 fùqīng zhàngmù to settle up with [somebody]; 与某人结清账款 
② (do calculations) 理清欠账 lǐqīng qiànzhàng 
settle
1 
ˈsedl

▶verb
1 [with object] resolve or reach an agreement about (an argument or problem): every effort was made to settle the dispute. 
• end (a legal dispute) by mutual agreement: the matter was settled out of court 
[no object] : he sued for libel and then settled out of court. 
• determine; decide on: exactly what goes into the legislation has not been settled 
[no object] : they had not yet settled on a date for the wedding. 
• pay (a debt or account): his bill was settled by charge card 
[no object] : I settled up with your brother for my board and lodging. 
• complete the administration and distribution of a decedent's estate. 
• (settle something on) give money or property to (someone) through a deed of settlement or a will. 
• [no object] (settle for) accept or agree to (something that one considers to be less than satisfactory): it was too cold for champagne so they settled for a cup of tea. 
• dated silence (someone considered a nuisance) by some means: he told me to hold my tongue or he would find a way to settle me.
2 [no object] adopt a more steady or secure style of life, especially in a permanent job and home: one day I will settle down and raise a family. 
• [with adverbial of place] make one's permanent home somewhere: in 1863 the family settled in London. 
• begin to feel comfortable or established in a new home, situation, or job: she settled in happily with a foster family 
he had settled into his new job. 
• [with object] establish a colony in: European immigrants settled much of Australia. 
• (settle down to) turn one's attention to; apply oneself to: Catherine settled down to her studies. 
• become or make calmer or quieter: [no object] : after a few months the controversy settled down 
[with object] : try to settle your puppy down before going to bed.
3 [no object] sit or come to rest in a comfortable position: he settled into an armchair. 
• [with object] make (someone) comfortable in a particular place or position: she allowed him to settle her in the taxi. 
• [with object] move or adjust (something) so that it rests securely: she settled her bag on her shoulder. 
• fall or come down onto a surface: dust from the mill had settled on the roof. 
• (of suspended particles) sink slowly in a liquid to form sediment; (of a liquid) become clear or still through this process: sediment settles near the bottom of the tank 
he pours a glass and leaves it on the bar to settle. 
• (of an object or objects) gradually sink down under its or their own weight: they listened to the soft ticking and creaking as the house settled. 
• (of a ship or boat) sink gradually. 
PHRASES
settle one's affairs make any necessary arrangements, such as writing a will, before one's death.settle someone's hash see hash1. DERIVATIVES settleable adjective. settledness nounORIGIN Old English setlan ‘to seat, place,’ from settle2 .
