shadow 
BrE ˈʃadəʊ, AmE ˈʃædoʊ 
A. noun 
① Countable(shade) 阴影 yīnyǐng the tree cast a shadow on or against the wall 树在墙上投下影子 his mother's ill health cast a shadow over his childhood 他母亲的多病给他的童年蒙上了阴影 to be/live in [somebody's] shadow 处于/生活在某人的阴影里 in the shadows 在阴影里 to have shadows under one's eyes 有黑眼圈 five o'clock shadow 新长出的胡子茬 to be afraid of one's own shadow 胆小如鼠 
② Uncountable(slightest trace) 少许 shǎoxǔ without a shadow of doubt 毫无疑问 is there any shadow of truth in this story? 这个说法有什么真实性吗？ 
③ Countable(inferior version) 较差状况 jiào chā zhuàngkuàng his illness has worn him to a shadow 疾病把他折磨得不成人形 he was (but) a shadow of his former self 他与以前相比憔悴得不成样子 
④ Countable(companion) 形影不离的人 xíng yǐng bù lí de rén he is his big sister's shadow 他是他姐姐的跟班 
⑤ before noun BrE 影子内阁的 yǐngzi nèigé de the shadow minister for homeland security 负责国土安全事务的影子内阁大臣 the Shadow Home Secretary 影子内阁的内政大臣 
⑥ Countable(person following and observing sb.) 暗中跟踪者 ànzhōng gēnzōng zhě to put a shadow on [somebody] 派人盯某人的梢 
B.  transitive verb 
① (shade) 在…上投下阴影 zài… shang tóuxia yīnyǐng the playground is shadowed by a big block of flats 操场笼罩在一座公寓大楼的阴影中 
② (tail) 跟踪 gēnzōng 
③ (in order to gain experience) 跟随…学习技能 gēnsuí… xuéxí jìnéng ‹worker, colleague›
shadow 
▶noun
1 he saw her shadow in the doorway: silhouette, outline, shape, contour, profile.
2 (shadows) he emerged from the shadows: shade, darkness, twilight; gloom, murkiness.
3 the shadow of war: black cloud, cloud, pall; gloom, blight; threat.
4 she knew without any shadow of doubt: trace, scrap, shred, crumb, iota, scintilla, jot, whit, grain; informal smidgen, smidge, tad.
5 a shadow of a smile: trace, hint, suggestion, suspicion, ghost, glimmer.
6 he's a shadow of his former self: inferior version, poor imitation, apology, travesty; remnant.
7 the dog became her shadow: constant companion, alter ego, second self; close friend, bosom friend; informal Siamese twin, bosom buddy.
▶verb
1 the market is shadowed by the church: overshadow, shade; darken, dim.
2 he is shadowing a poacher: follow, trail, track, stalk, pursue, hunt; informal tail, keep tabs on.
