shade 
BrE ʃeɪd, AmE ʃeɪd 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(shadow) 阴影 yīnyǐng light and shade 光与影 to put [somebody]/[something] in the shade figurative 使某人/某事物相形见绌 
② Countable(gradation) (of colour) 色度 sèdù (of meaning, opinion) 差别 chābié there are several shades of meaning in this line 这句话有好几层意思 all shades of opinion 各种意见 
③ Countable(small amount, degree) 些许 xiēxǔ this one is a shade better 这个略好一点 turn the music down a shade 把音乐声量调小一点 
④ Countable(lampshade) 灯罩 dēngzhào 
⑤ Countable AmE (window shade) 窗帘 chuānglián to pull down/raise the shade 拉下/拉起窗帘 
⑥ Countable(eye visor) 遮阳帽舌 zhēyángmàoshé 
⑦ Countableliterary (ghost) 鬼魂 guǐhún 
B.  shades noun plural 
① colloquial (sunglasses) 太阳镜 tàiyángjìng 
② (undertones) 痕迹 hénjì there are shades of the fifties in that outfit you're wearing 你的装束有50年代的余韵 
C.  transitive verb 
① (protect from glare) 为…遮阴 wèi… zhēyīn ‹room›(prevent glare from) 遮挡 zhēdǎng ‹light›I shaded my eyes against the sun 我罩住眼睛以遮挡阳光 a blind shaded the window 百叶窗遮挡了窗外的光线 
② (add shadow to) «paint, colour» 给…加阴影 gěi… jiā yīnyǐng ‹picture, contours, shadows›
③ (blend) 揉合 róuhé ‹colour, tone›I'll shade the orange into the brown 我要把橙色调成褐色 
D.  intransitive verb «colour, tone» 渐变 jiàn biàn to shade to or into … 渐变为… right shades into wrong 正确与错误之间没有明显的界限 
shade 
SHād

▶noun
1 comparative darkness and coolness caused by shelter from direct sunlight: sitting in the shade 
this area will be in shade for much of the day. 
• the darker part of a picture. 
• a position of relative inferiority or obscurity: her elegant pink and black ensemble would put most outfits in the shade. 
• (usually shades) literary a shadow or area of darkness: the shades of evening drew on. 
• historical a portrait in silhouette.
2 a color, especially with regard to how light or dark it is or as distinguished from one nearly like it: various shades of blue 
Maria's eyes darkened in shade. 
• Art a slight degree of difference between colors. 
• a slightly differing variety of something: politicians of all shades of opinion. 
• [in singular] a slight amount of something: there is a shade of wistfulness in his rejection.
3 a lampshade. 
• (often shades) North American a screen or blind on a window. 
• an eyeshade. 
• (shades) informal sunglasses.
4 literary a ghost. 
• (the Shades) the underworld; Hades. 
▶verb [with object]
1 screen from direct light: she shaded her eyes against the sun. 
• cover, moderate, or exclude the light of: he shaded the flashlight with his hand.
2 darken or color (an illustration or diagram) with parallel pencil lines or a block of color: she shaded in the outline of a chimney. 
• [no object] (of a color or something colored) gradually change into another color: the sky shaded from turquoise to night blue.
3 make a slight reduction in the amount, rate, or price of: banks may shade the margin over base rate they charge customers. 
PHRASES
a shade —— a little ——: he was a shade hung over. shades of —— used to suggest reminiscence of or comparison with someone or something specified: a long, drawn-out orchestral climax (shades of Wagner or Strauss). throw shade US informal publicly criticize or express contempt for someone: if she was really so above it all, she wouldn't have to throw shade 
they weren't the only people who threw shade at her performance.DERIVATIVES shadeless 
ˈSHādlis 
adjective. shader nounORIGIN Old English sc(e)adu, of Germanic origin. Compare with shadow .
