shake 
BrE ʃeɪk, AmE ʃeɪk 

A.  transitive verb 
① (past tense shook, past participle shaken) (move vigorously) 抖动 dǒudòng ‹mat, bag›; 甩动 shuǎidòng ‹prey›; 摇动 yáodòng ‹branch›shake the bottle 摇瓶子 it was a rough road, and we were shaken around quite a bit inside the car 道路崎岖不平，我们在车里颠得很厉害 to shake [something] at [somebody]/[something] 对某人/某物挥动某物 she shook the snow off or from her coat 她抖落了外衣上的雪 to shake hands 握手 wòshǒu to shake hands with [somebody], to shake [somebody's] hand, to shake [somebody] by the hand 和某人握手 to shake one's head 摇头 there'll be a few heads shaken over this scheme when it's made public 这一计划公布后会有人反对的 to shake a leg colloquial 快点儿 more than you can shake a stick at BrE colloquial 多得不得了 
② (shock) 使震惊 shǐ zhènjīng his death/the news had clearly shaken them 他的死讯/这一消息使他们大为震惊 
③ (weaken, impair) 动摇 dòngyáo ‹faith, confidence, theory›to shake [something] to its foundations 彻底动摇 ‹belief, system›
④ colloquial = shake off 
② 
B.  intransitive verb(past tense shook, past participle shaken) 
① (vibrate, tremble) «hand, person, voice» 颤抖 chàndǒu ; «ground, building» 颤动 chàndòng ; «grass, leaves» 摇动 yáodòng to shake with laughter/fear/fright/cold 笑得/吓得/害怕得/冻得浑身发抖 
② colloquial (shake hands) 握手 wòshǒu to shake on [something]; 为某事握手祝贺 can we shake on it? 我们可以握手祝贺达成协议了吗？ 
C.  reflexive verb(past tense shook, past participle shaken) to shake oneself 抖动身体 dǒudòng shēntǐ he shook himself to try and get the spiders off him 他试图抖落身上的蜘蛛 
D.  noun 
① (act of shaking) 摇动 yáodòng with a shake of the or one's head 摇了摇头 give the bottle a shake before you pour 倒东西之前先摇一摇瓶子 to have a shake in one's voice 声音有些颤抖 to have the shakes colloquial 发抖 in a shake colloquial 马上 in two shakes (of a lamb's tail) colloquial 马上 no great shakes colloquial 不出色 to be no great shakes (at [something]) （在某方面）很一般 to get/give [somebody] a fair shake AmE colloquial 得到公平对待/公平对待某人 
② AmE (milkshake) 奶昔 nǎixī 
③ AmE (earthquake) 地震 dìzhèn 
④ (amount sprinkled) [从容器里] 摇出的东西 yáochū de dōngxi add a few shakes of sea salt and black pepper 撒点儿海盐和黑胡椒 PHRASAL VERBS shake down 
A.  intransitive verb 
① colloquial (settle) «machine» 运转正常 yùnzhuǎn zhèngcháng ; «person» 适应新环境 shìyìng xīn huánjìng 
② (in container) «contents, powder, granules» 变得密实 biàn de mìshi 
B.  [shake somebody/something down, shake down somebody/something] transitive verb 
① (cause to fall) 摇落 yáoluò ‹fruit, object›; (cause to settle) 摇密实 yáo mìshi ‹contents, powder›
② AmE colloquial (search) 彻底搜查 chèdǐ sōuchá ‹person, building, club›the store detective shook him down 那名商场保安搜了他的身 
C.  [shake somebody down, shake down somebody] transitive verb AmE colloquial (extort money from) 敲诈 qiāozhà shake off transitive verb[shake somebody/something off, shake off somebody/something] 
① (let go by shaking) 抖落 dǒuluò the boy was clinging to Peter's neck, and Peter was trying to shake him off 男孩抱住彼得的脖子不放，彼得正想法把他甩下来 
② (get rid of, escape from) 摆脱 bǎituō ‹bad mood, habit, tiresome person›they shook off the car that was tailing them 他们甩掉了尾随他们的汽车 I can't seem to shake off this flu 我这次感冒好像怎么也好不了 shake out transitive verb[shake something out, shake out something] (empty by shaking) 摇出 yáochū ‹coins, contents›to shake the bag out over the table 把袋子里的东西抖在桌子上 shake up 
A.  [shake something up, shake up something] transitive verb 
① (mix) 摇松 yáosōng ‹cushion, pillow›; 摇匀 yáoyún ‹medicine, mixture›
② (reorganize) 重组 chóngzǔ ‹company, organization›
B.  [shake somebody up, shake up somebody] transitive verb 
① (make uncomfortable by jolting) 使…受颠簸 shǐ… shòu diānbǒ ‹passengers›
② colloquial (distress, shock) 震动 zhèndòng 
③ colloquial (rouse to activity) 使振作 shǐ zhènzuò they need shaking up! 得让他们振作起来！ 
shake 
SHāk

▶verb (past shook 
SHo͝ok
; past participle shaken 
ˈSHākən
)
1 [no object] (of a structure or area of land) tremble or vibrate: buildings shook in Sacramento and tremors were felt in Reno. 
• [with object] cause to tremble or vibrate: a severe earthquake shook the area. 
• (of a person, a part of the body, or the voice) tremble uncontrollably from a strong emotion such as fear or anger: Luke was shaking with rage 
her voice shook with passion.
2 [with object] move (an object) up and down or from side to side with rapid, forceful, jerky movements: she stood in the hall and shook her umbrella. 
• remove (an object or substance) from something by movements of this kind: they shook the sand out of their shoes. 
• informal get rid of or put an end to (something unwanted): he was unable to shake off the memories of the trenches. 
• grasp (someone) and move them roughly to and fro, either in anger or to rouse them from sleep: [with object and complement] : he gently shook the driver awake and they set off. 
• brandish in anger or as a warning; make a threatening gesture with: men shook their fists and shouted.
3 [with object] upset the composure of; shock or astonish: rumors of a further loss shook the market 
the fall shook him up quite badly 
(as adjective shaken) : she was visibly shaken and upset when she returned. 
• cause a change of mood or attitude by shocking or disturbing (someone): he had to shake himself out of his lethargy. 
▶noun
1 an act of shaking: with a shake of its magnificent antlers the stag charged down the slope 
camera shake causes the image to become blurred. 
• informal an earth tremor. 
• an amount of something that is sprinkled by shaking a container: add a few shakes of sea salt and black pepper. 
• short for milk shake. 
• (the shakes) informal a fit of trembling or shivering: I wouldn't go in there, it gives me the shakes.
2 Music a trill. 
PHRASES
get (or give someone) a fair shake North American informal get (or give someone) just treatment or a fair chance: I do not believe he gave the industry a fair shake. in two shakes (of a lamb's tail) informal very quickly: I'll be back to you in two shakes.more —— than one can shake a stick at informal used to emphasize the largeness of an amount: a team with more experience than you can shake a stick at. no great shakes informal not very good or significant: it is no great shakes as a piece of cinema. shake the dust off one's feet leave indignantly or disdainfully. shake hands (with someone) (or shake someone by the hand or shake someone's hand) clasp someone's right hand in one's own at meeting or parting, in reconciliation or congratulation, or as a sign of agreement.shake one's head turn one's head from side to side in order to indicate refusal, denial, disapproval, or incredulity: she shook her head in disbelief. shake (or quake) in one's shoes (or boots) tremble with apprehension.shake a leg informal make a start; rouse oneself: come on, shake a leg.PHRASAL VERBS shake down become established in a new place or situation; settle down: it was disruptive to the industry as it was shaking down after deregulation. shake someone down North American informal extort money from someone. shake something down cause something to fall or settle by shaking. shake someone off get away from someone by shaking their grip loose. 
• manage to evade or outmaneuver someone who is following or pestering one: he thought he had shaken off his pursuer. 
• (in sports, especially a race) outdistance another competitor: in the final lap she looked as though she had shaken off the Dutch girl. shake something off successfully deal with or recover from an illness or injury: she has shaken off a virus. shake on informal confirm (an agreement) by shaking hands: they shook on the deal. shake out eventually prove to happen: we'll see what shakes out. shake something out
1 empty something out by shaking a container: he shook out a handful of painkillers.
2 spread or open something such as a cloth or garment by shaking it: she shook out the newspaper. 
• restore something crumpled to its natural shape by shaking: she undid her helmet and shook out her frizzled hair. 
• Sailing unwind or untie a reef to increase the area of a sail. shake someone up rouse someone from lethargy, apathy, or complacency: he had to do something to shake the team up—we lacked spark. shake something up
1 mix ingredients by shaking: use soap flakes shaken up in the water to make bubbles.
2 make radical changes to the organization or structure of an institution or system: he presented plans to shake up the legal profession.ORIGIN Old English sc(e)acan (verb), of Germanic origin.
