shape 
BrE ʃeɪp, AmE ʃeɪp 

A.  noun 
① (outer form, outline) 形状 xíngzhuàng a square/rectangular/triangular shape 正方形/矩形/三角形 the children were cutting out shapes from paper 孩子们在剪纸 animal shapes 动物图形零食 a streamlined shape 流线型 I'm the wrong shape for this jacket 我的身材不适合穿这件夹克衫 to carve/cut/mould [something] into shape 把某物雕刻/切割/塑造成形 the bush is losing its shape; it needs a good trim 灌木丛杂乱一片，需要好好修剪一下 to take shape 成形 (in/of) all shapes and sizes 各式各样的 in any shape or form 以任何形式 
② (indistinguishable form) 模糊的影像 móhu de yǐngxiàng I could only just make out the shape of the building in the morning smog 晨雾中的大楼只能看出个轮廓 
③ (guise) 外表 wàibiǎo a fiend or monster in human shape 幻化为人形的妖魔 help arrived in the shape of a burly policeman 前来帮忙的是一位魁梧的警察 
④ (optimum condition) 状态 zhuàngtài to be in/out of shape 状态良好/不佳 I've got a bit out of shape during the holidays 我在度假期间身体有些不适 to knock or lick [somebody]/[something] into shape 使某人/某事物进入良好状态 
⑤ (character) 特征 tèzhēng (structure) 结构 jiégòu the basic shape of the essay 文章的基本框架 technological developments which have changed the shape of our lives 改变了我们生活方式的科技发展 the shape of things to come 未来的状况 
⑥ (mould for jelly, pastry) 模子 múzi 
⑦ (moulded food) 成型食品 chéngxíng shípǐn 
B.  transitive verb 
① (fashion, mould) 使…成形 shǐ… chéngxíng ‹wood, hair, figure›use both hands to shape the clay 用双手把黏土捏成形 rocks that have been shaped by the tide 潮水冲刷成形的岩石 to shape [something] into [something]; 把某物做成某种形状 to shape [something] out of or from [something]; 用某物做出某物 
② (influence, determine) 影响 yǐngxiǎng ‹character, events›; 决定 juédìng ‹development›
③ (tailor) 使合身 shǐ héshēn this jacket is shaped at the waist 这件夹克的腰部剪裁很合身 
C.  intransitive verb colloquial (progress, develop) «plan, project» 进展 jìnzhǎn the way things are shaping, we should be able to come 看目前的情况我们应该能来 PHRASAL VERB shape up intransitive verbcolloquial 
① (develop) «plan, project, team» 进展 jìnzhǎn the new intake seem to be shaping up quite well 新招的员工看上去适应得不错 to shape up to be [something] 发展成某事物 
② (meet expectations) «person» 称职 chènzhí shape up or ship out 表现不好就走人 
③ (improve one's figure) 改善身材 gǎishàn shēncái 
shape 
SHāp

▶noun
1 the external form or appearance characteristic of someone or something; the outline of an area or figure: she liked the shape of his nose 
houseplants come in all shapes and sizes 
chest freezers are square or rectangular in shape. 
• a person or thing that is difficult to see and identify clearly: he saw a shape through the mist. 
• a specific form or guise assumed by someone or something: a fiend in human shape. 
• a piece of material, paper, etc., made or cut in a particular form: stick paper shapes on for the puppet's eyes and nose.
2 [with adjective] the particular condition or state of someone or something: he was in no shape to drive 
the building was in poor shape. 
• the distinctive nature or qualities of something: the future shape and direction of the country. 
• definite or orderly arrangement: check that your structure will give shape to your essay. 
▶verb [with object] give a particular shape or form to: most caves are shaped by the flow of water through limestone 
shape the dough into two-inch balls. 
• make (something) fit the form of something else: [with object and infinitive] : suits have been shaped to fit so snugly that no curve is undefined. 
• determine the nature of; have a great influence on: his childhood was shaped by a loving relationship with his elder brother. 
• [no object] US develop in a particular way; progress: the yacht was shaping well in trials. 
• form or produce (a sound or words). 
PHRASES
get into shape (or get someone into shape) become (or make someone) physically fitter by exercise: if you're thinking of getting into shape, take it easy and build up slowly. in any (way) shape or form in any manner or under any circumstances (used for emphasis): 96 percent of the electorate voted against Europeanization in any shape or form.in (good) shape in good physical condition. in the shape of represented or embodied by: retribution arrived in the shape of my irate father. whip (or knock or lick) someone/something into shape act forcefully to bring someone or something into a fitter, more efficient, or better organized state: a man who whips a chamber orchestra into shape. out of shape
1 (of an object) not having its usual or original shape, especially after being bent or knocked: check that the pipe end and compression nut are not bent out of shape.
2 (of a person) in poor physical condition; unfit. the shape of things to come the way the future is likely to develop. [the title of a novel by 
H.  
G.  Wells (1933).] shape up or ship out informal, chiefly North American used as an ultimatum to someone to improve their performance or behavior or face being made to leave. take shape assume a distinct form; develop into something definite or tangible: the past few months have seen the state's health insurance legislation begin to take shape.PHRASAL VERBS shape up develop or happen in a particular way: it was shaping up to be another bleak year. 
• informal improve performance or behavior: we have never been afraid to tell our children to shape up. 
• become physically fit: I need to shape up.DERIVATIVES shapable (also shapeable) adjective. shaper 
ˈSHāpər 
nounORIGIN Old English gesceap ‘external form,’ also ‘creation,’ sceppan ‘create,’ of Germanic origin.
