share
1 
BrE ʃɛː, AmE ʃɛr 

A.  noun 
① (part owned or allotted) 一份 yī fèn here's your share! 这是你那一份！ to bear a share in or of [something] 承担某事的一部分 he's already spent his share of the family inheritance 他已经把自己继承的那份家族遗产挥霍光了 to go shares (on [something]) colloquial 分摊（某物） 
② (part contributed) 付出的部分 fùchū de bùfen to do one's share 尽一份力 
③ (of company stock) 股份 gǔfèn to issue shares 发行股份 to buy/sell shares 购买/售出股票 to have or hold shares 持有股份 
B.  transitive verb 
① (use or enjoy together) 共用 gòng yòng ‹room, taxi, bed›to share [something] with [somebody]; 和某人共用某物 
② (contribute towards) 分担 fēndān ‹cost, chores, responsibility›; 分享 fēnxiǎng ‹credit, praise›
③ (experience in common) 共同感受 gòngtóng gǎnshòu we shared each other's sorrows and joys 我们同悲同喜 they shared an interest in history/cooking/motorbikes 他们都对历史/烹调/摩托车感兴趣 I don't share your optimism about the future of Europe 我不认同你对欧洲前途的乐观看法 
④ (confide) 透露 tòulù ‹news, thoughts, secret›to share [something] with [somebody]; 把某事告诉某人 
C.  intransitive verb (give part) 分担 fēndān (take part) 参与 cānyù to share in the expenses 分担费用 to share in the work of reconstruction 参与重建工作 thank you for letting me share in your triumph 谢谢你让我分享你的胜利 share and share alike 平均分担 PHRASAL VERB share out transitive verb[share something out, share out something] 平均分配 píngjūn fēnpèi ‹profits, food, rations, spoils›
share
1 
SHer

▶noun
1 a part or portion of a larger amount that is divided among a number of people, or to which a number of people contribute: under the proposals, investors would pay a greater share of the annual fees required 
we gave them all the chance to have a share in the profits. 
• part proprietorship of property held by joint owners: Jake had a share in a large seagoing vessel. 
• [in singular] the allotted or due amount of something that a person expects to have or to do, or that is expected to be accepted or done by them: she's done more than her fair share of globe-trotting.
2 one of the equal parts into which a company's capital is divided, entitling the holder to a proportion of the profits: they bought 33 shares of American Standard.
3 an instance of posting or reposting something on a social media website or application: there have been 25,000 shares on Twitter and 117 likes on Facebook as of 7:30 p.m. 
▶verb [with object] have a portion of (something) with another or others: he shared the pie with her 
all members of the band equally share the band's profits. 
• give a portion of (something) to another or others: money raised will be shared between the two charities. 
• use, occupy, or enjoy (something) jointly with another or others: they once shared a house in the Hamptons 
[no object] : there weren't enough plates, so we had to share 
(as adjective shared) : a shared bottle of wine. 
• possess (a view or quality) in common with others: other countries don't share our reluctance to eat goat meat. 
• [no object] (share in) (of a number of people or organizations) have a part in (something, especially an activity): the companies would share in the development of three oil platforms. 
• tell someone about (something), especially something personal: she had never shared the secret with anyone before. 
• post or repost (something) on a social media website or application: the app lets you share your photos on Facebook, Twitter, and Tumblr. 
PHRASES
share and share alike having or receiving an equal share: their representatives shared the inheritance share and share alike. share a moment see moment. DERIVATIVES sharer 
ˈSHerər 
nounORIGIN Old English scearu ‘division, part into which something may be divided,’ of Germanic origin; related to Dutch schare and German Schar ‘troop, multitude,’ also to shear. The verb dates from the late 16th century.
