sharp 
BrE ʃɑːp, AmE ʃɑrp 

A.  adjective 
① (pointed) 尖的 jiān de ‹fangs, rock, nose›a sharp angle 尖角 a sharp corner or turn 急转弯 she had sharp features 她的面部棱角分明 to be at the sharp end (of [something]) 处于（某事的）风口浪尖 
② (abrupt, intense) 骤然的 zhòurán de ‹drop, incline›; 刺耳的 cì'ěr de ‹sound, cry›; 剧烈的 jùliè de ‹pain›to make a sharp movement 猛地一动 a sharp fall/rise in price 价格的陡降/陡升 
③ (clearly defined) 清晰的 qīngxī de ‹image, picture, shape›; 鲜明的 xiānmíng de ‹contrast, difference›a sharp distinction 明显的区别 
④ (keen, astute) 聪颖的 cōngyǐng de ‹person, child›; 敏锐的 mǐnruì de ‹mind, eyesight›; 灵敏的 língmǐn de ‹ears›to keep a sharp lookout (for [something]) 密切注意（某事物） she has a sharp eye for a bargain! 她很会淘便宜货！ 
⑤ (in business) 精明的 jīngmíng de ‹person, businessman›he is a sharp operator 他是个老狐狸 that's sharp work! 这事干得真绝！ 
⑥ (acrid, bitter) 苦涩的 kǔsè de ‹taste, fruit›; 刺鼻的 cìbí de ‹smell›
⑦ (biting) 刺骨的 cìgǔ de ‹wind›; 剧烈的 jùliè de ‹pain›
⑧ (harsh) 尖刻的 jiānkè de ‹rebuke, tone›the school teacher had a sharp tongue 那个老师说话尖酸刻薄 
⑨ (smart, stylish) 时髦的 shímáo de ‹suit, style, cut›he/she is a sharp dresser 他/她衣着入时 
⑩ Music (raised a semitone) 升半音的 shēng bànyīn de (too high in pitch) 偏高音的 piān gāoyīn de ‹note›
B.  adverb 
① (higher in pitch) 以偏高音 yǐ piān gāoyīn ‹play, be tuned›sopranos tend to sing sharp on the high notes 女高音在唱高音时往往偏高 
② (abruptly) 骤然 zhòurán ‹stop, pull up›you need to turn sharp left/right 你得马上左转/右转 
③ (punctually) 准时地 zhǔnshí de at
9 o'clock sharp 在9点整 the party had to stop sharp on midnight 聚会不得不在午夜12点整结束 look sharp! 赶快！ you'll have to look sharp or you'll miss the train! 你得快点儿，否则就赶不上火车了！ 
C.  noun Music 升半音 shēng bànyīn 
sharp 
SHärp

▶adjective
1 (of an object) having an edge or point that is able to cut or pierce something: cut the cake with a very sharp knife 
keep tools sharp. 
• producing a sudden, piercing physical sensation or effect: I suddenly felt a sharp pain in my back. 
• (of a food, taste, or smell) acidic and intense: sharp goats' milk cheese. 
• (of a sound) sudden and penetrating: there was a sharp crack of thunder. 
• (of words or a speaker) intended or intending to criticize or hurt: she feared his sharp tongue. 
• (of an emotion or experience) felt acutely or intensely; painful: her sharp disappointment was tinged with embarrassment.
2 tapering to a point or edge: a sharp pencil 
her face was thin and her nose sharp. 
• distinct in outline or detail; clearly defined: the job was a sharp contrast from her past life 
the scene was as sharp and clear in his mind as a film. 
• informal (of clothes or their wearer) neat and stylish: they were greeted by a young man in a sharp suit.
3 (of an action or change) sudden and marked: there was a sharp increase in interest rates 
he heard her sharp intake of breath. 
• (of a bend, angle, or turn) making a sudden change of direction: a sharp turn in the river. 
• having or showing speed of perception, comprehension, or response: her sharp eyes missed nothing 
his old mind was not so sharp as it once was 
he had a sharp sense of humor. 
• quick to take advantage, especially in an unscrupulous or dishonest way: Paul's a sharp operator.
4 (of musical sound) above true or normal pitch. 
• [postpositive, in combination] (of a note) a semitone higher than a specified note: the song sits on E and F-sharp 
the quartet in C-sharp minor. 
• (of a key) having a sharp or sharps in the key signature: recorder players are most comfortable in sharp keys. 
▶adverb
1 precisely (used after an expression of time): the meeting starts at 7:30 sharp.
2 in a sudden or abrupt way: the creek bent sharp left 
he was brought up sharp by Helen's voice.
3 above the true or normal pitch of musical sound: he heard him playing a little sharp on the high notes. 
▶noun
1 a musical note raised a semitone above natural pitch. 
• the sign ♯, indicating a sharp.
2 a long, sharply pointed needle used for general sewing. 
• (usually sharps) a thing with a sharp edge or point, such as a hypodermic needle, a blade, or a fragment of glass: the safe disposal of sharps and clinical waste.
3 informal a swindler or cheat. See also card sharp. 
▶verb [with object]
1 (usually as adjective sharped) Music, US raise the pitch of (a note).
2 archaic cheat or swindle (someone), especially at cards: the fellow is drunk, let's sharp him. [late 17th century: from sharper; compare with shark2 .] 
PHRASES
sharp as a tack North American extremely clever or astute. not the sharpest knife in the drawer (or not the sharpest tool in the shed, etc.) informal lacking intelligence; stupid: she's not the sharpest knife in the drawer, but she isn't dishonest.ORIGIN Old English sc(e)arp, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch scherp and German scharf .
