sheet 
BrE ʃiːt, AmE ʃit 

A.  noun 
① (for bed) 床单 chuángdān single/double sheets 单人/双人床单 linen/cotton sheets 亚麻/棉布床单 to be as white as a sheet 面无血色 
② (of paper, metal) 薄片 báopiàn a sheet of plastic 一块塑料布 a blank sheet of paper 一张白纸 a sheet of stamps 一版邮票 
③ (of water, ice) 大片 dàpiàn the fields were covered in a solid sheet of water 田野被一大片水淹没了 the oil tank exploded in a sheet of flames 油罐在一片火海中爆炸了 the rain came down in sheets 大雨倾盆而下 
④ (sail) 帆 fān two or three sheets to the wind colloquial 醉得东倒西歪 
B.  intransitive verb to sheet (down) «rain» 倾盆而下 qīng pén ér xià to sheet against [something]; 对着某物倾泻 duìzhe mǒu wù qīngxiè the water was sheeting down off the steep roof 水从尖屋顶上倾泻而下 
sheet
1 
SHēt

▶noun
1 a large rectangular piece of cotton or other fabric, used on a bed to cover the mattress and as a layer beneath blankets when these are used. 
• used in comparisons to describe the pallor of a person who is ill or has had a shock: Are you OK? You're as white as a sheet. 
• a broad flat piece of material such as metal or glass: the small pipe has been formed from a flat sheet of bronze.
2 a rectangular piece of paper, especially one of a standard size produced commercially and used for writing and printing on: a sheet of unmarked paper. 
• a quantity of text or other information contained on a sheet of paper: he produced yet another sheet of figures. 
• a flat piece of paper as opposed to a reel of continuous paper, the bound pages of a book, or a folded map. 
• all the postage stamps printed on one piece of paper: a sheet of stamps. 
• a map, especially one part of a series covering a larger area.
3 an extensive unbroken surface area of something: a sheet of ice. 
• a broad moving mass of flames or water: the rain was still falling in sheets. 
▶verb
1 [with object] cover with or wrap in a sheet or sheets: we sheeted a narrow bed.
2 [no object] (of rain) fall in large quantities: rain sheeted down. ORIGIN Old English scēte, scīete, of Germanic origin; related to the verb shoot in its primary sense ‘to project.’
