shift 
BrE ʃɪft, AmE ʃɪft 
A. transitive verb 
① (move) 挪动 nuódòng will somebody help me shift this piano? 谁来帮我挪一下这架钢琴？ I can't shift the lid from this jar 我揭不开这个坛子的盖子 shift yourself over/up! 你们过来/上去！ the detergent wouldn't shift the stain 这种洗涤剂洗不掉这块污渍 to shift a cold colloquial 感冒痊愈 shift your arse or AmE ass! vulg 滚蛋！ to shift one's position literal 挪地方 figurative 改变立场 gǎibiàn lìchǎng to shift one's ground 改变立场 gǎibiàn lìchǎng 
② (transfer) «lorry, company» 转移 zhuǎnyí ‹weight, production›; figurative «report, person» 转嫁 zhuǎnjià ‹blame›; 改变 gǎibiàn ‹attention›he shifted the load from his left shoulder to his right 他把扛的东西从左肩换到右肩 he's trying to shift the responsibility onto us 他在试图把责任推卸到我们头上 
③ AmE Auto to shift gear 换挡 huàndǎng 
④ colloquial (eat, drink) 大吃 dà chī ‹food›; 大喝 dà hē ‹beer›
⑤ colloquial (sell) 卖出 màichū ‹clothes, stock, goods›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (move around) «animal, person, object» 挪动 nuódòng ; «vowel, consonant» 演变 yǎnbiàn the audience shifted uneasily in their seats 观众在座位上不安地动来动去 to shift from … to …; 从…转向… the wind shifted from north to north west 风向由北转成了西北 he refused point blank to shift from his position literal 他坚决不挪地方 figurative 他断然拒绝改变立场 tā duànrán jùjué gǎibiàn lìchǎng the ship's cargo shifted in the rough seas 船上的货物在波涛汹涌的大海上颠簸 he's made his mind up, and I can't make him shift 他已经下定了决心，我无法动摇他 
② AmE (change gear) 换挡 huàndǎng to shift into second 换到二挡 to shift up/down (a gear) （把挡位）换到高挡/低挡 
③ BrE colloquial (move quickly) 快速移动 kuàisù yídòng get shifting! we're late! 快走！我们迟到了！ look at that car! it's really shifting! 瞧那辆车！跑得真快啊！ 
④ to shift for oneself 独自谋生 dúzì móushēng 
C.  noun 
① (change) 变换 biànhuàn a shift in the government's policy 政府政策的转变 a shift in the wind from north to north west 风由北向西北的转变 to bring about or produce a shift 导致转变 a shift of emphasis 重点的转移 the gradual shift of people from the country to the town 人口从乡村到城镇的逐步迁移 
② (group of workers) 轮班员工 lúnbān yuángōng (time worked) 轮班工作时间 lúnbān gōngzuò shíjiān the day/night shift 白班/夜班 an 8-hour shift 8小时轮班 to work shifts or in shifts 轮班工作 to be on the day/morning/evening shift 上白班/早班/晚班 to be paid shift rates 按轮班标准领工资 
③ to make shift (manage) 将就着用 jiāngjiuzhe yòng 
④ (woman's dress) 直筒连衣裙 zhítǒng liányīqún 
⑤ (on keyboard) 转换键 zhuǎnhuànjiàn 
⑥ (of rock) 断层 duàncéng 
⑦ AmE = gear shift 
shift 
▶verb
1 she shifted her position: change, alter, adjust, vary; modify, revise, reverse, retract; do a U-turn. ANTONYMS keep.
2 the cargo has shifted: move, slide, slip, be displaced.
3 the wind shifted: veer, alter, change, turn, swing round.
▶noun
1 the southward shift of people: movement, move, transference, transport, transposition, relocation.
2 a shift in public opinion: change, alteration, adjustment, amendment, variation, modification, revision, reversal, retraction, U-turn.
3 they worked three shifts: stint, stretch, spell of work.
4 the night shift went home: workers, crew, gang, team, squad, patrol.
