shine 
BrE ʃʌɪn, AmE ʃaɪn 

A.  intransitive verb(past tense, past participle shone) 
① (emit light) «stars, light, lamp» 发光 fāguāng ; «sun, moon» 照耀 zhàoyào to shine through [something] 透过…照射过来 ‹mist, gloom›the light is shining in my eyes 亮光照到了我的眼睛 to shine in/out; 照进/射出 to shine up to [somebody] AmE colloquial «person» 试图讨好某人 
② (glow) «metal, shoes, hair, eyes» 闪光 shǎnguāng 
③ figurative (be radiant) «excitement, goodness, courage» 显露 xiǎnlù ; «eyes» 发亮 fāliàng to shine out of [something]; 从某物中透出 her courage shone forth literary 她的勇气表露无遗 to shine with [something]; 因某事物而放光 his face shone with exertion 他的脸因为用力而发红 
④ (excel) «person» 表现出色 biǎoxiàn chūsè he never shone at school 他的学业成绩从来都不出色 to get or have a chance to shine 得到出人头地的机会 
B.  transitive verb 
① (past tense, past participle shone) (direct) 将…照向 jiāng… zhào xiàng ‹searchlight, headlamps, spotlight›shine your torch over here please 把你的手电往这边照 
② (past tense, past participle shined) (polish) 将…擦亮 jiāng… cāliàng ‹buttons, silver, furniture›I shine my shoes every morning 我每天早晨都擦鞋 
C.  nounUncountable
① (brightness) 光亮 guāngliàng the shine of sunlight/moonlight on water 水面上太阳/月亮的闪光 
② (polish) 光泽 guāngzé to give [something] a shine; 给…上光 ‹floor, shoes›to take the shine off [something] figurative 使某物黯然失色 to take a shine to [somebody] figurative colloquial 喜欢上某人 
shine 
SHīn

▶verb (past and past participle shone 
SHōn
or shined) [no object]
1 (of the sun or another source of light) give out a bright light: the sun shone through the window. 
• glow or be bright with reflected light: I could see his eyes shining in the light of the fire. 
• [with object] direct (a flashlight or other light) somewhere in order to see something in the dark: an usher shines his flashlight into the boys' faces. 
• (of a person's eyes) be bright with the expression of a particular emotion: his eyes shone with excitement.
2 be very talented or perform very well: she shines at comedy.
3 (past shined) [with object] make (an object made of leather, metal, or wood) bright by rubbing it; polish: his shoes were shined to perfection. 
▶noun [in singular] a quality of brightness, especially from reflected light: use shoe polish to try and get a shine 
my hair has lost its shine. 
• an act of rubbing something to give it a shiny surface: Tom's shoes got a quick shine from a boy with a buffing cloth. 
• offensive a contemptuous term for a black or dark-skinned person. 
PHRASES
take the shine off spoil the brilliance or excitement of: the absence of new jobs has taken some of the shine off his stellar popularity ratings. take a shine to informal develop a liking for.PHRASAL VERBS shine through (of a good quality or skill) be clearly evident: at Regis his talent shone through.ORIGIN Old English scīnan, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch schijnen and German scheinen .
