shock
1 
BrE ʃɒk, AmE ʃɑk 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(distress) 震惊 zhènjīng numb with shock 惊呆的 speechless from shock 吃惊得说不出话的 
② Countable(thing causing distress) 令人震惊的事物 lìng rén zhènjīng de shìwù her sudden death was a terrible shock 她的突然死亡让人震惊 to give [somebody] a shock 让某人吃一惊 to come as a shock (to [somebody]) （对某人而言）是个打击 shocks and upheavals 动荡不安 
③ Uncountable(of collision, jolt) 撞击 zhuàngjī (of earthquake, blast, explosion) 震动 zhèndòng the shock of the collision demolished the front of both cars 两辆车的车头都撞毁了 to withstand a shock 承受冲击 to absorb shocks 抵消冲击 
④ Countable(electric current) 电击 diànjī to receive or get a shock 触电 to give [somebody] a shock 让某人遭电击 
⑤ UncountableMedicine 休克 xiūkè to be in a state of shock 处于休克状态 severe/mild shock 严重/轻度休克 
⑥ Countablecolloquial (shock absorber) 消震器 xiāozhènqì 
B.  transitive verb (surprise, distress) «speech, action, behaviour» 使震惊 shǐ zhènjīng (offend, disgust) 使厌恶 shǐ yànwù you can't shock me! I've seen everything! 你吓不着我！我什么没见过！ to be shocked at [something] 对某事物感到震惊 I was shocked to hear about your accident 听说你出了事故我很震惊 to be shocked by [something] 因某事物感到震惊 
shock
1 
SHäk

▶noun
1 a sudden upsetting or surprising event or experience: it was a shock to face such hostile attitudes when I arrived. 
• a feeling of disturbed surprise resulting from an upsetting event: her death gave us all a terrible shock 
her eyes opened wide in shock. 
• an acute medical condition associated with a fall in blood pressure, caused by such events as loss of blood, severe burns, bacterial infection, allergic reaction, or sudden emotional stress, and marked by cold, pallid skin, irregular breathing, rapid pulse, and dilated pupils: he died of shock due to massive abdominal hemorrhage. 
• a disturbance causing instability in an economy: trading imbalances caused by the two oil shocks. 
• short for electric shock.
2 a violent shaking movement caused by an impact, explosion, or tremor: earthquake shocks 
rackets today don't bend or absorb shock the way wooden rackets do. 
• short for shock absorber. 
▶verb
1 [with object] cause (someone) to feel surprised and upset: she was shocked at the state of his injuries. 
• offend the moral feelings of; outrage: the revelations shocked the nation. 
• [no object] experience feelings of outrage: he shocked so easily. 
• (usually be shocked) affect with physiological shock, or with an electric shock.
2 [no object] archaic collide violently: carriage after carriage shocked fiercely against the engine. DERIVATIVES shockability 
-əˈbilitē 
noun. shockable 
ˈSHäkəb(ə)l 
adjectiveORIGIN mid 16th century: from French choc (noun), choquer (verb), of unknown origin. The original senses were ‘throw (troops) into confusion by charging at them’ and ‘an encounter between charging forces,’ giving rise to the notion of ‘sudden violent blow or impact.’
