shop 
BrE ʃɒp, AmE ʃɑp 

A.  noun 
① especially BrE (selling goods or services) 商店 shāngdiàn a corner/duty-free/clothes shop 街角小店/免税店/服装商店 to mind the shop 看管商店 figurative 临时照看 línshí zhàokàn to set up shop 开业 to shut up shop literal 打烊 figurative 停业 tíngyè to live over the shop literal 住在店铺的楼上 figurative 住在工作地点附近 zhù zài gōngzuò dìdiǎn fùjìn to talk shop 说行话 like a bull in a china shop 笨手笨脚地碰东碰西 all over the shop colloquial (in disarray) 杂乱无章 (in every direction) 到处 I've been all over the shop to find a present for her 我四下为她寻找礼物 
② (workshop) 车间 chējiān an engineering/machine/assembly shop 机械加工/机器制造/组装车间 a repair/print/paint shop 维修/印刷/喷漆车间 
③ (shopping trip) 购物 gòuwù she's gone into town to do her weekly shop 她进了城购物，每周一次 
B.  intransitive verb(present participle etc. -pp-) 购物 gòuwù to shop for ([something]) 购买（某物） to go shopping 去购物 to go Christmas shopping 去购买圣诞节用品 
C.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -pp-) BrE colloquial (betray) 告发 gàofā PHRASAL VERB shop around intransitive verb 货比三家 huò bǐ sān jiā we shopped around for a long time before deciding on this school figurative 我们考察比较了很长时间才选定这所学校 
shop 
SHäp

▶noun
1 a building or part of a building where goods or services are sold; a store: a card shop 
a barber shop. 
• [in singular] British informal an act of going shopping: she slogged her way around the supermarket doing the weekly shop.
2 [usually with modifier] a place where things are manufactured or repaired; a workshop: an auto repair shop. 
• a room or department in a factory where a particular stage of production is carried out: the machine shop. 
• short for shop class: I got an A in shop last year. 
▶verb (shops, shopping, shopped)
1 [no object] visit one or more stores or websites to buy goods: she shopped for groceries twice a week 
sometimes it's more convenient to shop online 
[with object] : take a trip to downtown San Diego to shop the upscale stores of Horton Plaza. 
• (shop around) look for the best available price or rate for something: they shopped around for cheaper food.
2 [with object] informal, chiefly British inform on (someone): a concerned member of the public had shopped him—wrongly—for accepting monetary reward.
3 [with object] informal alter (a photographic image) digitally using Photoshop image-editing software: saying this picture was shopped was the way her lawyers attempted damage control. 
PHRASES
close (or shut) up shop cease business or operation, either temporarily or permanently: the cafes must shut up shop by July 22. 
• informal stop some activity: rather than close up shop, the team has returned to fighting trim. set up shop establish oneself in a business: he set up shop as a hairdresser in Soho. talk shop discuss matters concerning one's work, especially at a social occasion when this is inappropriate.ORIGIN Middle English: shortening of Old French eschoppe ‘lean-to booth,’ of West Germanic origin; related to German Schopf ‘porch’ and English dialect shippon ‘cattle shed.’ The verb is first recorded (mid 16th century) in the sense ‘imprison’ (from an obsolete slang use of the noun for ‘prison’), hence sense
2 of the verb .
