short 
BrE ʃɔːt, AmE ʃɔrt 

A.  adjective 
① (not long in length) 短的 duǎn de a short dress 短裙 to cut [something] short 把某物剪短 a short distance away or off 不远的距离 
② (below average height) 矮的 ǎi de he's rather short in stature 他个头很矮 short and stocky 矮壮的 
③ (not lasting long) 短暂的 duǎnzàn de we met in the street and had a short conversation 我们在街上碰面后聊了几句 he gave a short speech of welcome 他发表了简短的欢迎讲话 he gave a short cry of delight 他惊喜地叫了一声 she gave a short gasp of pain 她疼得倒吸了一口气 to have a short memory 健忘 a short time or while ago 刚才 a short course 短期课程 in short order 迅速地 to make short work of [somebody]/[something] 干净利落地打败某人/解决某事 short and sweet 简明扼要的 in two short months the political climate had changed completely 短短两个月后政治气候完全变了 
④ (inadequate) 不足的 bùzú de it was mid-summer, and water was very short 时值仲夏，水源紧缺 time is getting short 时间越来越少 the shopkeeper gave us short change 店主少找了我们钱 the results are far short of what we expected 结果远远达不到我们的预期 
⑤ (lacking) to be short of [something]; 缺乏某物 quēfá mǒu wù I'm very short of ready cash 我手头很缺现金 wǒ shǒutóu hěn quē xiànjīn the car is short of petrol 汽车的油不够用了 to be five short 少5个 shǎo
5 gè we're short by two players for the match 我们比赛还差两个队员 to be (a bit) short 手头（有点儿）拮据 shǒutóu(yǒudiǎnr)jiéjū he is short on experience colloquial 他经验不足 tā jīngyàn bùzú 
⑥ (in abbreviation) 简略的 jiǎnlüè de to be short for [something] 是某事物的简写 UN is short for United Nations UN是United Nations的缩写 call me Frank for short 为简单起见叫我弗兰克好了 
⑦ (abrupt) 生硬无礼的 shēngyìng wúlǐ de to be short with [somebody]; 对某人简慢 
⑧ (expressed in few words) 简短的 jiǎnduǎn de ‹comment, question, explanation›short and to the point 言简意赅的 in short 简而言之 to cut a long story short 长话短说 
⑨ Linguistics 发音时间短的 fāyīn shíjiān duǎn de a short vowel/syllable 短元音/短音节 
⑩ Finance 空头交易的 kōngtóu jiāoyì de a short contract/bill of exchange/position 空头交易合同/空头交易票据/空头 a short seller 卖空者 
⑪ (crumbly) 松脆的 sōng cuì de ‹cake, pastry, crust›
B.  adverb 
① (suddenly) 突然 tūrán to bring or pull [somebody] up short 使某人突然停下 
② (before the expected place or time) short of [something]; 达不到某物 dábudào mǒu wù the plane landed short of the runway 飞机在跑道外迫降着陆 his second drive landed short of the green 他第二杆击出的球就落在球穴区边上 to be caught or taken short colloquial 内急 nèijí a brilliant career tragically cut short by illness 不幸因病半途而废的美好前程 to stop short of [something]/doing [something] 不尝试某事物/做某事 bù chángshì mǒu shìwù/zuò mǒu shì I'm sure he'd stop short of anything/doing anything illegal 我肯定他不会做违法的事 
③ (less than) short of 不到 bùdào there were just short of two thousand people in the hall 礼堂里有将近两千人 short of the truth 与事实有出入 yǔ shìshí yǒu chūrù we collected not far short of £500 我们募集了差不多500镑 to fall short of [something] 未达到某状况 wèi dádào mǒu zhuàngkuàng his achievements have fallen short of all he hoped to do 他所取得的成就全部未达到自己的期望 to go short (of [something]) 缺少（某物） quēshǎo(mǒu wù) to run short (of [something]) 快用完（某物） kuài yòngwán(mǒu wù) to sell [somebody]/[something] short 低估某人/某事物 dīgū mǒu rén/mǒu shìwù 
④ short of … (except for) 除…之外 chú… zhī wài short of resigning, there isn't much I can do 除了辞职，我没多少能做的 it's little or nothing short of scandalous 简直就是丑闻 jiǎnzhí jiù shì chǒuwén 
⑤ (in cricket) to bowl short 投球不够远 tóuqiú bù gòu yuǎn 
⑥ Finance 空头交易地 kōngtóu jiāoyì de to sell short 卖空 màikōng 
C.  noun 
① colloquial = short circuit 
A.  
② (film) [在正片之前放映的] 电影短片 diànyǐng duǎnpiàn 
③ (alcoholic drink) 少量烈酒 shǎoliàng lièjiǔ 
D.  intransitive verb colloquial = short circuit 
B.  
E.  transitive verb colloquial = short circuit 
C. 
① 
short 
SHôrt

▶adjective
1 measuring a small distance from end to end: short, dark hair 
a short flight of steps 
the bed was too short for him. 
• (of a journey) covering a small distance: the hotel is a short walk from the sea. 
• (of a garment or sleeves on a garment) only covering the top part of a person's arms or legs: a short skirt. 
• (of a person) small in height: he is short and tubby. 
• (of a ball in cricket, a shot in tennis, etc.) traveling only a small distance before bouncing: he uses his opportunities to attack every short ball. 
• short for shortstop.
2 lasting or taking a small amount of time: visiting London for a short break 
a short conversation. 
• [attributive] seeming to last less time than is the case; passing quickly: in
10 short years all this changed. 
• (of a person's memory) retaining things for only a small amount of time: he has a short memory for past misdeeds. 
• Stock Market (of stocks or other securities or commodities) sold in advance of being acquired, with reliance on the price falling so that a profit can be made. 
• Stock Market (of a broker, position in the market, etc.) buying or based on stocks or other securities or commodities sold short. 
• denoting or having a relatively early date for the maturing of a bill of exchange.
3 relatively small in extent: a short speech 
he wrote a short book. 
• [predicative] (short of/on) not having enough of (something); lacking or deficient in: they were short of provisions 
I know you're short on cash. 
• [predicative] in insufficient supply: food is short. 
• [predicative] (of a person) terse; uncivil: he was often sharp and rather short with her.
4 Phonetics (of a vowel) categorized as short with regard to quality and length (e.g., in standard British English the vowel 
ʊ
in good is short as distinct from the long vowel 
uː
in food). 
• Prosody (of a vowel or syllable) having the lesser of the two recognized durations.
5 (of odds or a chance) reflecting or representing a high level of probability: they have been backed at short odds to win thousands.
6 (of pastry) containing a high proportion of fat to flour and therefore crumbly. 
• (of clay) having poor plasticity. 
▶adverb (chiefly in sports) at, to, or over a relatively small distance: you go deep and you go short. 
• not as far as the point aimed at; not far enough: all too often you pitch the ball short. 
▶noun
1 British a drink of spirits served in a small measure.
2 a short film as opposed to a feature film. 
• a short sound such as a short signal in Morse code or a short vowel or syllable: her call was two longs and a short. 
• a short circuit.
3 Stock Market a person who sells short. 
• (shorts) Stock Market short-dated stocks.
4 (shorts) a mixture of bran and coarse flour. 
▶verb
1 short-circuit or cause to short-circuit: [no object] : the electrical circuit had shorted out 
[with object] : if the contact terminals are shorted, the battery quickly overheats. [early 20th century: abbreviation.]
2 [with object] Stock Market sell (stocks or other securities or commodities) in advance of acquiring them, with the aim of making a profit when the price falls. 
PHRASES
be caught (Stock Market taken) short be put at a disadvantage: the troubled company has been caught short by price competition in a recession-stricken market. 
• British informal urgently need to urinate or defecate. two bricks short of a load (, an oar short of a pair, etc.) informal (of a person) stupid; crazy: she's two bricks short of a load.bring (or pull) someone up short make someone check or pause abruptly: he was entering the office when he was brought up short by the sight of John. come short fail to reach a goal or standard: we're so close to getting the job done, but we keep coming up short. 
• South African get into trouble: if you try to trick him you'll come short. for short as an abbreviation or nickname: the File Transfer Protocol, or ftp for short. get (or have) someone by the short hairs (Stock Market short and curlies) informal have complete control of a person. [from military slang, referring to pubic hair.]go short not have enough of something, especially food: you won't go short when I die. in short to sum up; briefly: different plants, different animals, different weather—in short, a whole different ecosystem. in short order chiefly North American immediately; rapidly: after the killing the camp had been shut down in short order. in the short run in the near future.in the short term in the near future. little (or nothing) short of almost (or equal to); little (or nothing) less than: he regarded the cost of living as little short of scandalous. make short work of accomplish, consume, or destroy quickly: we made short work of our huge portions. sell short Stock Market sell stock or other securities or commodities that one does not own at the time, in the hope of buying at a lower price before the delivery time. sell someone/something short fail to recognize or state the true value of: don't sell yourself short—you've got what it takes. short and sweet brief and pleasant: his comments were short and sweet. the short end of the stick North American an outcome in which one has less advantage than others. short for an abbreviation or nickname for: I'm Robbie—short for Roberta. short of less than: he died at sixty-one, four years short of his pensionable age. 
• not reaching as far as: a rocket failure left a satellite tumbling in an orbit far short of its proper position. 
• without going so far as (some extreme action): short of putting out an all-persons alert, there's little else we can do. short of breath panting; short-winded. short, sharp shock see shock1. stop short (or stop someone short) stop (or cause to stop) suddenly or abruptly: she began to speak, but stopped short at the look on the other woman's face 
I was about to reply with a sarcastic remark when a thought stopped me short. stop short of not go as far as (some extreme action): the measures stopped short of establishing direct trade links.DERIVATIVES shortish 
ˈSHôrdiSH 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English sceort, of Germanic origin; related to shirt and skirt .
