should 
BrE ʃʊd, AmE ʃʊd, ʃəd 
modal auxiliary(negative should not or colloquial shouldn't) 
① (expressing obligation) 应该 yīnggāi you shouldn’t drink and drive 不应该酒后驾车 he should have been more careful 他本应该再小心一点儿的 everything is as it should be 一切正常 a present for me? you shouldn’t have! 给我的礼物吗？你太客气了！ 
② (giving or asking for advice) 该 gāi I should resign if I were you 如果我是你的话，我就辞职不干了 she recommended that I should take some time off 她建议我休息一段时间 she doesn’t think she’ll get a job — she should worry, with all her qualifications ironic 她认为自己找不到工作──她那么好的条件，可真该担心的 should I call him and apologize? 我是不是该打电话向他道歉？ 
③ (expressing probability) 应该会 yīnggāi huì the parcel should arrive today 包裹应该今天到 I should have finished the book by Friday 到星期五我应该能读完那本书 
④ (indicating that sth. has not happened) 本应 běn yīng it should be snowing now, according to the weather forecast 按天气预报的说法，现在本该下雪才是 the bus should have arrived ten minutes ago 公共汽车10分钟前就该到了 
⑤ BrE formal (indicating consequence, purpose) 会 huì if they didn't invite me, I should be offended 要是他们没邀请我的话，我会生气的 we should never have succeeded without you 要是没有你，我们绝不会成功 in order that training should be effective 为了让训练有效 in order that they should not be worried 为了不让他们担心 
⑥ formal (indicating possibility) 假如 jiǎrú if you should (ever) change your mind, do let me know 你（一旦）改变主意的话，一定要告诉我 should anyone call, please tell them I’m busy 如果有人打电话来，请告诉他我正忙着 supposing he should die? 万一他死了呢？ 
⑦ (expressing future in reported speech) ［用于引语中表示将来动作］ I said that I should be pleased to help 我说过我乐意帮忙 
⑧ (in expressions of feelings) 竟然 jìngrán it's sad that he should object 令人遗憾的是，他竟然会反对 I find it astonishing that he should be so rude to you 我很吃惊，他居然对你这样无礼 
⑨ BrE formal (in polite requests) ［用于表示礼貌请求，仅与I或we连用］ I should like to call my lawyer 我希望给我的律师打个电话 I should like a drink 我想喝一杯 wǒ xiǎng hē yī bēi I should like to ask whether … 我想问一问是否… 
⑩ (expressing uncertain opinion) [表示不确定，仅与I或we连用]I should imagine it will take about three hours 我想得用差不多3个小时吧 I should think so 我想是吧 will it matter? — I shouldn’t think so 这有关系吗？──不会吧 
⑪ (expressing strong agreement) ［用于表示强烈赞同］ nobody will oppose it — I should think not! 谁也不会反对──的确不会！ I'll pay you for it — I should hope so! 我会付钱给你的──但愿如此！ 
⑫ (expressing annoyance, refusal, surprise) ［表示气恼、拒绝或惊讶］ why should I help him? 我干吗要帮他呢？ how should I know where you’ve left your bag? 我怎么知道你把包丢到哪里去了？ who should walk in but John! 没想到走进来的居然是约翰！ 
⑬ (emphasizing sth. remarkable) [用于强调某事不同凡响] 真该 zhēn gāi you should hear her play the cello! 你真该听听她拉大提琴！ 
should 
SHo͝od SHəd

▶modal verb (third person singular should)
1 used to indicate obligation, duty, or correctness, typically when criticizing someone's actions: he should have been careful 
I think we should trust our people more 
you shouldn't have gone. 
• indicating a desirable or expected state: by now students should be able to read with a large degree of independence. 
• used to give or ask advice or suggestions: you should go back to bed 
what should I wear? 
• (I should) used to give advice: I should hold out if I were you.
2 used to indicate what is probable: $348 million should be enough to buy him out 
the bus should arrive in a few minutes.
3 formal expressing the conditional mood. 
• (in the first person) indicating the consequence of an imagined event: if I were to obey my first impulse, I should spend my days writing letters. 
• referring to a possible event or situation: if you should change your mind, I'll be at the hotel 
should anyone arrive late, admission is likely to be refused.
4 used in a clause with “that” after a main clause describing feelings: it is astonishing that we should find violence here.
5 used in a clause with “that” expressing purpose: in order that training should be effective it must be planned systematically.
6 (in the first person) expressing a polite request or acceptance: we should be grateful for your advice.
7 (in the first person) expressing a conjecture or hope: he'll have a sore head, I should imagine 
“It won't happen again.” “I should hope not.”
8 used to emphasize to a listener how striking an event is or was: you should have seen Marge's face. 
• (who/what should —— but) emphasizing how surprising an event was: I was in this store when who should I see across the street but Toby. ORIGIN Old English sceolde: past of shall . usage: As with shall and will, there is confusion about when to use should and would. The traditional rule is that should is used with first person pronouns (I and we), as in I said I should be late, and would is used with second and third persons (you, he, she, it, they), as in you didn't say you would be late. In practice, however, would is normally used instead of should in reported speech and conditional clauses: I said I would be late; if we had known, we would have invited her. In spoken and informal contexts, the issue rarely arises, since the distinction is obscured by the use of the contracted forms I'd, we'd, etc. In modern English, uses of should are dominated by the senses relating to obligation (for which would cannot be substituted), as in you should go out more often, and for related emphatic uses, as in you should have seen her face!
