shoulder 
BrE ˈʃəʊldə, AmE ˈʃoʊldər 

A.  noun 
① CountableAnatomy 肩 jiān to have round/broad/narrow shoulders 长着溜肩/宽肩/窄肩 to carry [somebody] on one's shoulders 背某人 to carry [somebody] shoulder high 把某人举到肩上 to look (back) over one's shoulder 回过头去看 to stand shoulder to shoulder (with [somebody]) （和某人）肩并肩站立 to work shoulder to shoulder figurative 齐心协力 a shoulder to cry on figurative 倾诉对象 to fall on [somebody's] shoulders figurative «responsibility» 落到某人肩上 to put one's shoulder to the wheel figurative 全力以赴 straight from the shoulder figurative 直截了当地 
② usually plural Countable(part of garment) 肩部 jiānbù padded shoulders 有衬垫的肩部 
③ UncountableCulinary 肩肘肉 jiānzhǒu ròu a shoulder of lamb 羊前腿连肩肉 
④ Countable(of mountain, hill) 山肩 shānjiān 
⑤ Countable(of road) 路肩 lùjiān 
B.  transitive verb 
① (take on one's shoulder) 扛起 kángqǐ 
② figurative (take on) 承担 chéngdān ‹blame, responsibility›
③ (push with shoulder) 用肩推搡 yòng jiān tuīsǎng to shoulder [somebody] aside/out of the way 肩部一顶把某人挤到一边儿去/挤开 
shoulder 
ˈSHōldər

▶noun
1 the upper joint of the human arm and the part of the body between this and the neck. 
• (in quadrupeds) the joint of the upper forelimb and the adjacent part of the back. 
• the part of a bird or insect at which the wing is attached. 
• a large cut of meat from the upper foreleg and shoulder blade of an animal: a shoulder of lamb. 
• a part of a garment covering the shoulder: a jacket with padded shoulders. 
• (shoulders) the upper part of the back and arms: a tall youth with broad shoulders. 
• (shoulders) the human shoulders regarded as bearing responsibility or hardship or providing strength: all accounts place the blame squarely on his shoulders.
2 a part of something resembling a shoulder in shape, position, or function: the shoulder of a pulley. 
• a point at which a steep slope descends from a plateau or highland area: the shoulder of the hill sloped down.
3 a paved strip alongside a road for stopping on in an emergency. 
▶verb
1 [with object] put (something heavy) over one's shoulder or shoulders to carry: we shouldered our crippling backpacks and set off slowly up the hill. 
• take on (a burden or responsibility): she shouldered the blame for the incident.
2 [with object] push (someone or something) out of one's way with one's shoulder: she shouldered him brusquely aside. 
• [no object] move by shouldering someone or something out of one's way: he shouldered past a woman with a baby 
he shouldered his way through the seething mass of children. 
PHRASES
be looking over one's shoulder be anxious or insecure about a possible danger: takeovers are the thing that keeps suppliers looking over their shoulders. put one's shoulder to the wheel set to work vigorously. shoulder arms hold a rifle against the side of the body, barrel upward. a shoulder to cry on someone who listens sympathetically to one's problems. shoulder to shoulder side by side: everyone is bunched together shoulder to shoulder. 
• acting together toward a common aim; with united effort: we fought shoulder to shoulder with the rest of the country.ORIGIN Old English sculdor; related to Dutch schouder and German Schulter .
