shuffle 
BrE ˈʃʌf(ə)l, AmE ˈʃəfəl 

A.  intransitive verb 
① (drag feet) 拖着脚走 tuōzhe jiǎo zǒu to shuffle along/in; 拖着脚向前走/走进来 to shuffle about; 拖着脚走来走去 
② Games «person, dealer» 洗牌 xǐpái 
B.  transitive verb 
① (change position of) 把…移来移去 bǎ… yí lái yí qù to shuffle one's feet (in embarrassment) （尴尬地）来回倒换双脚 
② Games «person, dealer» 洗 xǐ ‹cards, pack›
③ to shuffle (about or around) (move around) 挪动 ‹objects› (change order of) 弄乱 nòngluàn ‹papers, numbers, data› (change position of) 重组 chóngzǔ ‹personnel›to shuffle things/people about or around 将东西移来移去/把人调来调去 
C.  noun 
① (movement) 拖着脚走 tuōzhe jiǎo zǒu 
② (sound) 拖拉的脚步声 tuōlā de jiǎobù shēng 
③ Games 洗牌 xǐpái to give the cards a shuffle 洗牌 xǐpái 
④ (dance) 曳步舞 yèbùwǔ 
⑤ Politics 改组 gǎizǔ a Cabinet shuffle 内阁改组 PHRASAL VERB shuffle off 
A.  intransitive verb 拖着脚走开 tuōzhe jiǎo zǒukāi 
B.  transitive verb[shuffle something off], [shuffle off something] 摆脱 bǎituō ‹duty›; 逃避 táobì ‹responsibility, blame›he tried to shuffle the job off on to me! 他试图把活儿推给我！ 
shuffle 
ˈSHəfəl

▶verb
1 [no object] walk by dragging one's feet along or without lifting them fully from the ground: I stepped into my skis and shuffled to the edge of the steep slope 
(as adjective shuffling) : she heard Grandma's shuffling steps. 
• shift one's position while sitting or move one's feet while standing, typically because of boredom, nervousness, or embarrassment: Christine shuffled uneasily in her chair 
[with object] : Ben shuffled his feet in the awkward silence. 
• [with object] (shuffle something into) put part of one's body into (an item of clothing), typically in a clumsy way: shuffling her feet into a pair of shoes, she tiptoed out of the room.
2 [with object] rearrange (a deck of cards) by sliding the cards over each other quickly. 
• move (people or things) around so as to occupy different positions or to be in a different order: she shuffled her papers into a neat pile. 
• play or arrange (tracks on a music player) in a random order: the control lets you shuffle or skip songs by flicking the phone with your wrist. 
• [no object] (shuffle through) sort or look through (a number of things) hurriedly: he shuffled through the papers on his desk.
3 [with object] (shuffle something off) get out of or avoid a responsibility or obligation: some hospitals can shuffle off their responsibilities by claiming to have no suitable facilities. 
• [no object] archaic behave in a shifty or evasive manner: Mr. Mills did not frankly own it, but seemed to shuffle about it. 
• [no object] (shuffle out of) archaic get out of (a difficult situation) in an underhanded or evasive manner: he shuffles out of the consequences by vague charges of undue influence. 
▶noun
1 [in singular] a shuffling movement, walk, or sound: there was a shuffle of approaching feet. 
• a quick dragging or scraping movement of the feet in dancing. 
• a dance performed with shuffling steps. 
• a piece of music for or in the style of a shuffle. 
• a rhythmic motif based on a shuffle dance step and typical of early jazz, consisting of alternating quarter notes and eighth notes in a triplet pattern.
2 an act of shuffling a deck of cards. 
• a change of order or relative positions; a reshuffle: the president will have to consider a cabinet shuffle in the spring. 
• a facility on a music player for playing tracks in an arbitrary order: I had my iPod on shuffle and ‘Eleanor Rigby’ just happened to begin playing 
[as modifier] : a shuffle facility.
3 archaic a piece of equivocation or subterfuge. 
PHRASES
be (or get) lost in the shuffle North American informal be overlooked or missed in a confused or crowded situation. shuffle off this mortal coil see coil2. DERIVATIVES shuffler 
ˈSHəf(ə)lər 
nounORIGIN mid 16th century: perhaps from Low German schuffeln ‘walk clumsily,’ also ‘deal dishonestly, shuffle (cards),’ of Germanic origin; related to shove and scuffle .
