signing 
BrE ˈsʌɪnɪŋ, AmE ˈsaɪnɪŋ 
noun 
① Uncountable(of treaty, official document) 签署 qiānshǔ 
② Uncountable(recruitment) 签约雇用 qiānyuē gùyòng the signing of overseas players 海外队员的签约聘用 
③ Countable BrE (newly recruited person) 签约受雇者 qiānyuē shòugùzhě Liverpool's latest signing 利物浦队最新签约的队员 
④ Countable(by author) 签名售书活动 qiānmíng shòu shū huódòng 
⑤ Uncountable(using sign language) 手语的使用 shǒuyǔ de shǐyòng 
sign 
▶noun
1 a sign of affection: indication, signal, symptom, pointer, suggestion, intimation, mark, manifestation, demonstration, token, evidence; literary sigil.
2 a sign of things to come: portent, omen, warning, forewarning, augury, presage, danger sign; promise, threat.
3 at his sign the soldiers followed: gesture, signal, wave, gesticulation, cue, nod.
4 he read the sign on the wall: notice, signpost, signboard, warning sign, road sign, traffic sign, guidepost, marquee.
5 the dancers were daubed with signs: symbol, mark, cipher, letter, character, figure, hieroglyph, ideogram, rune, emblem, device, logo.
▶verb
1 he signed the letter: write one's name on, autograph, endorse, initial, countersign, ink; formal subscribe.
2 the government signed the agreement: endorse, validate, certify, authenticate, sanction, authorize; agree to, approve, ratify, adopt, give one's approval to; informal give something the go-ahead, give something the green light, give something the thumbs up.
3 he signed his name: write, inscribe, pen.
4 we have signed a new player: recruit, hire, engage, employ, take on, appoint, sign on/up, enlist.
5 she signed to Susan to leave. See signal1 (sense
1 of the verb). 
PHRASES
sign on/up
1 I signed up with Will's committee to raise money for the school library: enlist, take a job, join (up), enroll, register, volunteer.
2 the Yankees have signed on a new right fielder. See sign (sense
4 of the verb). sign over he signed over the business to his children: transfer, make over, hand over, bequeath, pass on, transmit, cede; Law devolve, convey. CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD See emblem .These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD sign, augury, indication, manifestation, omen, signal, symptom, token What's the difference between a sign and a signal ? The former (in this sense) is a general term for anything that gives evidence of an event, a mood, a quality of character, a mental or physical state, or a trace of something (a sign of approaching rain; a sign of good breeding; a sign that someone has entered the house). While a sign may be involuntary or even unconscious, a signal is always voluntary and is usually deliberate. A ship that shows signs of distress may or may not be in trouble; but one that sends a distress signal is definitely in need of help. Indication, like sign, is a comprehensive term for anything that serves to indicate or point out (he gave no indication that he was lying). A manifestation is an outward or perceptible indication of something (the letter was a manifestation of his guilt), and a symptom is an indication of a diseased condition (a symptom of pneumonia). An object that proves the existence of something abstract is called a token (she gave him a locket as a token of her love). Omen and augury both pertain to foretelling future events, with augury being the general term for a prediction of the future and omen being a definite sign foretelling good or evil (they regarded the stormy weather as a bad omen).These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
