sign 
BrE sʌɪn, AmE saɪn 

A.  noun 
① (symbolic mark) 符号 fúhào 
② (notice) (giving information) 公告 gōnggào (giving direction) 路标 lùbiāo (giving instruction, warning) 提示牌 tíshìpái (advertising sth.) 招牌 zhāopai follow the signs for the city centre 按照路标的指引去市中心 ‘open’/‘closed’sign 营业/关门告示牌 a pub/inn sign 酒馆/旅店招牌 
③ (gesture) 手势 shǒushì to give [somebody] a sign 向某人打手势 she nodded as a sign for us to sit down 她点头示意我们坐下 the sign of the cross Religion ［基督徒祈祷时的] 画十字 
④ (visible evidence) 迹象 jìxiàng signs of suffering on his face 他脸上痛苦的表情 there's no sign of life in the house 屋子里没有一点住人的迹象 there's not the slightest sign of him anywhere 哪里都见不到他的踪影 
⑤ (indication, pointer) 征兆 zhēngzhào call the police at the first sign of trouble 一旦发现危险苗头就报警 flowers are often given as a sign of affection 人们经常通过送花表达爱意 a sign of the times 时代特征 ［含贬义］a good/bad sign 好/坏兆头 an ominous sign 不祥的征兆 there are signs that the crisis is ending 有迹象显示危机即将过去 
⑥ Astrology sign (of the zodiac) 星座 xīngzuò what sign are you?, what's your sign? 你是什么星座？ nǐ shì shénme xīngzuò ？ 
B.  transitive verb 
① (write) 签 qiān ‹one's name›read the statement and sign your name at the bottom/where indicated 阅读本声明后在页尾/指定位置签名 
② (put one's signature on) 在…上签名 zài… shang qiānmíng ‹cheque, document, painting›; 签订 qiāndìng ‹treaty, warrant›a signed copy of her latest novel 她最新小说的签名本 to sign a contract 签合同 the two countries signed a non-aggression treaty 两国签署了互不侵犯条约 a signed confession 有签名的供词 signed, sealed, and delivered 成定局的 to sign one's own death warrant figurative 自寻死路 
③ (place under contract) 和…签约 hé… qiānyuē ‹performer›to sign [somebody] for [something]; 为某事和某人签约 
④ (perform in sign language) 用手语表演 yòng shǒuyǔ biǎoyǎn ‹programme, play›; 用手语传达 yòng shǒuyǔ chuándá ‹message›
⑤ (indicate with notice) 以路牌指示 yǐ lùpái zhǐshì the footpath is signed next to the gate 门边路牌指示了小道的方向 
⑥ (signal) 示意 shìyì to sign to [somebody] that …; 向某人示意… he signed to me that I should leave the room 他示意我应该离开房间 to sign to [somebody] where/when/who/what … 向某人示意哪里/何时/谁/什么… to sign (to) [somebody] to do [something]; 示意某人做某事 
C.  reflexive verb to sign oneself …; 在署名中把自己叫做 zài shǔmíng zhōng bǎ zìjǐ jiàozuò he signs himself Jimmy 他署名吉米 tā shǔmíng Jímǐ 
D.  intransitive verb 
① (write one's signature) 签名 qiānmíng to sign for [something]; «recipient» 签收某物 
② (sign contract) «performer, player» 签约 qiānyuē to sign for or with [somebody]/[something]; 和某人/某机构签约 
③ (use sign language) 打手语 dǎ shouyǔ PHRASAL VERBS sign away transitive verb[sign something away, sign away something] 签字放弃 qiānzì fàngqì ‹property, inheritance, rights›sign in 
A.  intransitive verb «guest» 登记入住 dēngjì rùzhù 
B.  transitive verb[sign somebody in, sign in somebody] 替…签到 tì… qiāndào ‹guest›sign off 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (at work) «employee» 辞职 cízhí 
② colloquial (end letter) 结束写信 jiéshù xiěxìn (end telephone call) 挂电话 guà diànhuà it's getting late, so I must sign off now 时间很晚了，我先写到这里吧 to sign off on [something]; 批准某事 
③ Radio, Television «broadcaster» 结束广播 jiéshù guǎngbō this is X signing off and wishing you goodnight 我是X，今天的节目到此结束，祝您晚安 
B.  transitive verb [sign somebody off, sign off somebody] «doctor» 给…签病假条 gěi… qiān bìngjiàtiáo ‹patient›sign on 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (enrol) «applicant» 报名 bàomíng to sign on for [something]; 报名参加某活动 I've signed on for the French course 我报名上法语课了 to sign on with [something]; 报名加入某组织 
② BrE (register as unemployed) 登记失业 dēngjì shīyè 
B.  transitive verb[sign somebody on, sign on somebody] «employer, club» 签约聘用 qiānyuē pìnyòng sign out 
A.  intransitive verb (record one's departure) 登记离开 dēngjì líkāi you must sign out when you leave the hotel 离开酒店时必须登记 to sign out of; 登记离开 dēngjì líkāi ‹hotel›
B.  transitive verb[sign somebody/something out, sign out somebody/something] 
① (record departure of) 登记…外出 dēngjì… wàichū all students staying away overnight must be signed out by a member of staff 所有在外过夜的学生都必须经过工作人员登记 
② (record borrowing of) 登记借 dēngjì jiè ‹library book›sign over transitive verb[sign something over, sign over something] 签字转让 qiānzì zhuǎnràng ‹property, estate›to sign [something] over to [somebody]; 签字把某物转让给某人 sign up 
A.  intransitive verb 
① Military «recruit» 报名从军 bàomíng cóngjūn 
② (conclude deal) «person, company» 签约 qiānyuē to sign up with [somebody]/[something]; 和某人/某机构签约 
B.  transitive verb[sign somebody up, sign up somebody] 与…签约 yǔ… qiānyuē ‹performer, worker›the club has signed up a new goalkeeper 该俱乐部签下了一名新守门员 to sign [somebody] up for [something]; 为…签约某人 ‹club, show, job›
sign 
sīn

▶noun
1 an object, quality, or event whose presence or occurrence indicates the probable presence or occurrence of something else: flowers are often given as a sign of affection 
[with clause] : the stores are full, which is a sign that the recession is past its worst. 
• something regarded as an indication or evidence of what is happening or going to happen: the signs are that counterfeiting is growing at an alarming rate. 
• [with negative] used to indicate that someone or something is not present where they should be or are expected to be: there was still no sign of her. 
• Medicine an indication of a disease detectable by a medical practitioner even if not apparent to the patient. Compare with symptom. 
• a miracle regarded as evidence of supernatural power (chiefly in biblical and literary use). 
• North American any trace of a wild animal, especially its tracks or droppings: wolverine sign.
2 a gesture or action used to convey information or instructions: she gave him the thumbs-up sign. 
• a notice that is publicly displayed giving information or instructions in a written or symbolic form: I didn't see the stop sign. 
• an action or reaction that conveys something about someone's state or experiences: she gave no sign of having seen him. 
• a gesture used in a system of sign language. 
• short for sign language. 
• a symbol or word used to represent an operation, instruction, concept, or object in algebra, music, or other subjects. 
• a word or gesture given according to prior arrangement as a means of identification; a password.
3 (also zodiacal sign) Astrology each of the twelve equal sections into which the zodiac is divided, named from the constellations formerly situated in each, and associated with successive periods of the year according to the position of the sun on the ecliptic: a person born under the sign of Virgo.
4 Mathematics the positiveness or negativeness of a quantity. 
▶verb
1 [with object] write one's name on (a letter, card, or similar item) to identify oneself as the writer or sender: the card was signed by the whole class. 
• indicate agreement with or authorization of the contents of (a document or other written or printed material) by attaching a signature: the two countries signed a nonaggression treaty. 
• write (one's name) for purposes of identification or authorization: she signed her name in the book 
[with object and complement] : she signed herself Ingrid 
[no object] : he signed on the dotted line. 
• engage (someone, typically a sports player or a musician) to work for one by signing a contract with them: the company signed 30 bands. 
• [no object] sign a contract committing oneself to work for a particular person or organization: Sherman has signed for another two seasons.
2 [no object] use gestures to convey information or instructions: [with infinitive] : she signed to her husband to leave the room. 
• communicate in sign language: she was learning to sign. 
• [with object] express or perform (something) in sign language: (as adjective signed) : the theater routinely puts on signed performances. 
• [with object] archaic mark or consecrate with the sign of the cross. 
PHRASES
sign of the cross a Christian sign made in blessing or prayer by tracing a cross from the forehead to the chest and to each shoulder, or in the air. sign of the times something judged to exemplify or indicate the nature or quality of a particular period, typically something unwelcome or unpleasant: the theft was a sign of the times. signed, sealed, and delivered (or signed and sealed) formally and officially agreed and in effect.PHRASAL VERBS sign something away/over officially relinquish rights or property by signing a deed: I have no intention of signing away my inheritance. sign for sign a receipt to confirm that one has received (something delivered or handed over). sign in sign a register on arrival, typically in a hotel.sign someone in record someone's arrival in a register.sign off conclude a letter, broadcast, or other message: he signed off with a few words of advice. 
• sign to record that one is leaving work for the day. 
• Bridge indicate by a conventional bid that one is seeking to end the bidding. sign someone off record that someone is entitled to miss work, typically because of illness. sign off on US informal assent or give one's approval to: it was hard to get celebrities to sign off on those issues. sign on chiefly British commit oneself to employment, membership in a society, or some other undertaking: I'll sign on with an advertising agency. sign someone on take someone into one's employment. sign out sign a register to record one's departure, typically from a hotel. sign someone out authorize someone's release or record their departure by signing a register. sign something out sign to indicate that one has borrowed or hired something: I signed out the keys. sign up commit oneself to a period of employment or education or to some other undertaking: he signed up for a ten-week course. 
• enlist in the armed forces. 
• (also sign something up) conclude a business deal: the company has already signed up a few orders. sign someone up formally engage someone in employment.DERIVATIVES signer 
ˈsīnər 
nounORIGIN Middle English: from Old French signe (noun), signer (verb), from Latin signum ‘mark, token.’
