signal 
BrE ˈsɪɡn(ə)l, AmE ˈsɪɡnəl 

A.  noun 
① (gesture, sound) 信号 xìnhào to give or send a signal 发出信号 a signal to do [something]; 做某事的信号 the policeman raised his hand as a signal to stop 警察举手示意停车 the signal for violent protest 强烈抗议的信号 
② (indication) 标志 biāozhì the rise in inflation is a clear signal that government policies are not working 通货膨胀率的上升清楚地表明政府的决策不起作用 a signal of or about [something]; 某事物的标志 is this white paper a signal of a change in government thinking? 这份白皮书是否标志着政府思路的转变？ chest pains can be a warning signal of heart disease 胸部疼痛可能是心脏病的警示信号 
③ Railways 信号灯 xìnhàodēng 
④ Radio, Television, Electronics 讯号 xùnhào to send/transmit a signal 发出/传输讯号 to receive or pick up a signal 收到讯号 
B.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -ll- BrE, -l- AmE ) 
① (show by signal) «person, ship» 传达 chuándá ‹intention, message›Sport «referee» 示意 shìyì ‹free kick, penalty›the yellow light signals ‘proceed with caution’ 黄灯表示“小心前行” the referee signalled a foul 裁判示意犯规 to signal [something] to [somebody]; 向某人示意某事 to signal to do [something]; 示意做某事 to signal which/what/where …; 示意哪一个/什么/哪里… you must signal which way you are going to turn 转向前一定要打信号 to signal right/left 打左转/右转信号 
② figurative (indicate) «situation, decision, attitude» 表明 biǎomíng ‹shift, determination, intention›
③ figurative (mark) «event, statement» 标志 biāozhì ‹beginning, stage›
C.  intransitive verb(present participle etc. -ll- BrE, -l- AmE ) 发信号 fā xìnhào he was signalling frantically 他发疯似地比画着 you didn't signal! Auto 你没打转向灯！ I signalled for him to bring the bill 我示意他把账单拿来 
D.  adjective attributive 极大的 jí dà de ‹triumph, failure, disaster›
signal
1 
ˈsiɡnəl

▶noun
1 a gesture, action, or sound that is used to convey information or instructions, typically by prearrangement between the parties concerned: the firing of the gun was the signal for a chain of beacons to be lit 
[with infinitive] : the policeman raised his hand as a signal to stop. 
• an indication of a state of affairs: the markets are waiting for a clear signal about the direction of policy. 
• an event or statement that provides the impulse or occasion for something specified to happen: the champion's announcement that he was retiring was the signal for scores of journalists to gather at his last match. 
• an apparatus on a railroad, typically a colored light or a semaphore, giving indications to train engineers of whether or not the line is clear. 
• Bridge a prearranged convention of bidding or play intended to convey information to one's partner.
2 an electrical impulse or radio wave transmitted or received: equipment for receiving TV signals. 
▶verb (signals, signaling, signaled; chiefly British signals, signalling, signalled) [no object] transmit information or instructions by means of a gesture, action, or sound: hold your fire until I signal. 
• [with object and infinitive] instruct (someone) to do something by means of gestures or signs rather than explicit orders: she signaled Charlotte to be silent. 
• (of a cyclist, motorist, or vehicle) indicate an intention to turn in a specified direction using an extended arm or flashing indicator: [with complement] : Stone signaled right 
[with infinitive] : the truck signaled to turn left. 
• indicate the existence or occurrence of (something) by actions or sounds: [with object] : they could signal displeasure by refusing to cooperate 
[with clause] : she gave a glance that signaled that her father was being secretive. DERIVATIVES signaler 
ˈsiɡnələr 
nounORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French, from medieval Latin signale, neuter of late Latin signalis, from Latin signum ‘mark, token’ (see sign). The verb dates from the early 19th century.
