silver 
BrE ˈsɪlvə, AmE ˈsɪlvər 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(metal) 银 yín 
② Uncountable(colour) 银色 yínsè 
③ Uncountable(dishes) 银器 yínqì (cutlery) 银餐具 yín cānjù → cloud 
A. 
① 
④ Uncountable(coins) 银币 yínbì in silver 用银币 £10 in silver 10英镑银币 
⑤ Countable(medal) 银牌 yínpái 
B.  adjective 
① (made of silver) 银质的 yínzhì de ‹bracelet, watch, cutlery›
② (colour) 银色的 yínsè de ‹paint, glitter, hair›
C.  transitive verb 给…镀银 gěi… dù yín ‹metal, fork, mirror, glass›
silver 
ˈsilvər

▶noun
1 a precious shiny grayish-white metal, the chemical element of atomic number 47. (Symbol: Ag) A transition metal, silver is found in nature as the native metal as well as in combined form in ore minerals. It is valued for use in jewelry and other ornaments and formerly in coins, and the decomposition of silver salts by the action of light (depositing metallic silver) is the basis of photography.
2 a shiny gray-white color or appearance like that of silver: the dark hair was now highlighted with silver.
3 silver dishes, containers, or cutlery: thieves stole $5,000 worth of silver 
the family silver. 
• household cutlery of any material: it is important to wash table silver in hot soapy water immediately after each meal.
4 coins made from silver or from a metal that resembles silver. 
• chiefly Scottish money.
5 short for silver medal. 
▶adjective [attributive] US denoting a twenty-fifth anniversary. 
▶verb [with object] (often as adjective silvered) coat or plate with silver: large silvered candlesticks. 
• provide (mirror glass) with a backing of a silver-colored material in order to make it reflective. 
• literary (especially of the moon) give a silvery appearance to: the brilliant moon silvered the turf. 
• turn (a person's hair) gray or white. 
• [no object] (of a person's hair) turn gray or white. 
PHRASES
be born with a silver spoon in one's mouth see born. every cloud has a silver lining proverb every difficult or sad situation has a comforting or more hopeful aspect even though this may not be immediately apparent. the silver screen the movie industry; movies collectively: stars of the silver screen.ORIGIN Old English seolfor, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch zilver and German Silber .
