simple 
BrE ˈsɪmp(ə)l, AmE ˈsɪmpəl 
adjective 
① (uncomplicated) 简单的 jiǎndān de ‹task, method, instructions, solution›it's quite simple 这很简单 it's a simple matter to change a wheel 换轮子是件简单的事 for the simple reason that … 只是因为… computing made simple 《数据处理简易通》 in simple terms or language 简单地说 as simple as ABC 非常简单 it's a simple matter of choice 这只不过是个选择的问题 for the simple reason that he hasn't got any money 就是因为他没有钱 
② (not elaborate) 朴素的 pǔsù de ‹clothes, furniture, design›; 简朴的 jiǎnpǔ de ‹food, lifestyle›
③ (basic) 原始的 yuánshǐ de ‹tool, life form, structure›
④ (unsophisticated) 普通的 pǔtōng de ‹labourer, soldier›her parents were simple shopkeepers 她的父母是普普通通的小商店店主 I'm a simple soul ironic 我是个单纯的人 
⑤ (unintelligent) 智力低的 zhìlì dī de ‹person›
⑥ (plain) 显而易见的 xiǎn ér yì jiàn de ‹truth, fact, difference›
simple 
ˈsimpəl

▶adjective (simpler, simplest)
1 easily understood or done; presenting no difficulty: a simple solution 
camcorders are now so simple to operate. 
• plain, basic, or uncomplicated in form, nature, or design; without much decoration or ornamentation: a simple white blouse 
the house is furnished in a simple country style. 
• [attributive] used to emphasize the fundamental and straightforward nature of something: the simple truth.
2 composed of a single element; not compound. 
• Mathematics denoting a group that has no proper normal subgroup. 
• Botany (of a leaf or stem) not divided or branched. 
• (of a lens, microscope, etc.) consisting of a single lens or component. 
• (in English grammar) denoting a tense formed without an auxiliary, e.g., sang as opposed to was singing. 
• (of interest) payable on the sum loaned only. Compare with compound1.
3 of or characteristic of low rank or status; humble and unpretentious: a simple Buddhist monk.
4 of low or abnormally low intelligence. 
▶noun chiefly historical a medicinal herb, or a medicine made from one: the gatherers of simples. 
▶exclam. used to convey that something is very straightforward: I don't overanalyze. I listen, I like, I buy. Simple! DERIVATIVES simpleness nounORIGIN Middle English: from Old French, from Latin simplus. The noun sense (mid 16th century) originally referred to a medicine made from one constituent, especially from one plant.
