sin
1 
BrE sɪn, AmE sɪn 
A. noun 
① Uncountable(breaking of divine law) 罪过 zuìguo [指对宗教戒律的违犯]
② Countable(transgression) [宗教意义上的] 罪行 zuìxíng the sin of pride 傲慢之罪 to commit a sin 犯罪 to forgive [somebody's] sins 宽恕某人的罪孽 to confess one's sins 悔罪 a sin against [somebody]/[something] 冒犯某人/亵渎某事物的罪过 
③ Countable(fault, offence, omission) 过错 guòcuò it's a sin to do [something] 做某事不应该 a sin of omission 渎职 for one's sins BrE 自作自受地 
B.  intransitive verb (present participle etc. -nn-) 犯过失 fàn guòshī to sin against [somebody]/[something] 亵渎某人/某物 to be more sinned against than sinning figurative 过错无多而报应太重 
sin 
▶noun
1 a sin in the eyes of God: immoral act, wrong, wrongdoing, act of evil/wickedness, transgression, crime, offense, misdeed, misdemeanor; archaic trespass.
2 the human capacity for sin: wickedness, wrongdoing, wrong, evil, evildoing, sinfulness, immorality, iniquity, vice, crime. ANTONYMS virtue.
3 informal they've cut the school music program—it's a sin: scandal, crime, disgrace, outrage.
▶verb I have sinned: commit a sin, commit an offense, transgress, do wrong, commit a crime, break the law, misbehave, go astray; archaic trespass.CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD sin, crime, fault, indiscretion, offense, transgression, vice If you've ever driven through a red light or chewed with your mouth open, you've committed an offense, which is a broad term covering any violation of the law or of standards of propriety and taste. A sin, on the other hand, is an act that specifically violates a religious, ethical, or moral standard (to marry someone of another faith was considered a sin). Transgression is a weightier and more serious word for sin, suggesting any violation of an agreed-upon set of rules (their behavior was clearly a transgression of the terms set forth in the treaty). A crime is any act forbidden by law and punishable upon conviction (a crime for which he was sentenced to death). A vice has less to do with violating the law and more to do with habits and practices that debase a person's character (alcohol was her only vice). Fault and indiscretion are gentler words, although they may be used as euphemisms for sin or crime. A fault is an unsatisfactory feature in someone's character (she is exuberant to a fault), while indiscretion refers to an unwise or improper action (speaking to the media was an indiscretion for which she was chastised). In recent years, however, indiscretion has become a euphemism for such sins as adultery, as if to excuse such behavior by attributing it to a momentary lapse of judgment (his indiscretions were no secret).These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
