sing 
BrE sɪŋ, AmE sɪŋ 

A.  transitive verb(past tense sang, past participle sung) 
① Music (vocalize) 唱 chàng to sing a song 唱歌 chànggē can you sing the soprano part? 你能唱女高音声部吗？ to sing [something] to or for [somebody]; 为某人唱某歌曲 to sing one's troubles/blues away 借唱歌忘掉烦恼/忧伤 to sing a different or another tune or song figurative 改弦易辙 a nightingale was singing its song in the twilight 一只夜莺在暮色中歌唱 
② literary (celebrate in words) «poet, poetry» 颂扬 sòngyáng 
B.  intransitive verb(past tense sang, past participle sung) 
① Music (vocalize) 唱歌 chànggē to sing in/out of tune 唱歌合调/走调 to sing like a lark 歌声优美 to sing from the same hymn or song sheet BrE figurative colloquial 对外口径一致 the birds sing every day at daybreak 鸟儿每天在破晓时分啼鸣 
② (make high-pitched sound) «insect, kettle» 尖叫 jiānjiào to make [somebody's] ears sing 使某人耳朵嗡嗡作响 the wind sang in the treetops 风在树梢间呼啸 a bullet sang past my ear 一颗子弹从我耳边嗖的一声飞过 
③ colloquial (act as informer) «criminal» 当线人 dāng xiànrén to sing like a canary 向警方和盘托出 
④ literary (celebrate in words) «poet, poetry» to sing of [somebody]/[something]; 歌颂某人/某事物 gēsòng mǒu rén/mǒu shìwù 
C.  nouncolloquial 
① (act of singing) 歌唱 gēchàng to have a sing 唱支歌 
② AmE (sing-along) 合唱聚会 héchàng jùhuì PHRASAL VERBS sing along intransitive verb 跟着唱 gēnzhe chàng he played the piano and we all sang along 他弹钢琴，我们都跟着唱 to sing along with [somebody]; 随着某人唱 sing out 
A.  intransitive verb 
① «singer, choir» 放声高歌 fàngshēng gāogē 
② colloquial (call out) «person» 叫喊 jiàohǎn ; «voice» 高声发出 gāoshēng fāchū sing out if you need some more 还需要就喊一声 
B.  transitive verb[sing out something, sing something out] colloquial 高声说出 gāoshēng shuō chū he sang out a greeting 他高声问候 sing up intransitive verb especially BrE 更大声地唱 gèng dàshēng de chàng sing up! 放开嗓门唱！ 
sing 
▶verb
1 the choir began to sing: croon, carol, trill, chant, intone, chorus; informal belt out.
2 the birds were singing: warble, trill, chirp, chirrup, cheep, peep.
3 Rudy sang out a greeting: call (out), cry (out), shout, yell; informal holler.
4 informal he's going to sing to the police: inform (on someone), confess; informal squeal, rat on someone, blow the whistle on someone, snitch (on someone), narc (on someone), finger someone, fink on someone.REFLECTIONS Stephin Merrittsing This word encompasses the unpitched guttural tones of death metal, the wailing of Screamin' Jay Hawkins (a trained opera singer), the speak-singing of Rex Harrison, and the extended vocal techniques of Joan LaBarbara. Rapping and talking blues are usually considered a separate musical activity, but toasting, the high-pitched rhythmic chant on one note associated with Jamaican pop, would qualify. The gray area is wide, and fertile.Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
