sink 
BrE sɪŋk, AmE sɪŋk 

A.  intransitive verb(past tense sank, past participle sunk) 
① (go below surface) «object, submarine, material» 下沉 xiàchén to sink to the bottom/below the surface 沉底/沉到水下 the wheels started to sink in the mud 车轮开始陷入泥里 the rain sank into the dry ground 雨水渗进了干燥的地面 my warning hasn't sunk into your thick skull yet, has it? figurative colloquial 你的笨脑瓜还没明白我的警告，是不是？ sink or swim figurative 不自救，必沉沦 to sink without trace «ship» 消失得无影无踪 figurative «idea, book» 销声匿迹 xiāo shēng nì jì 
② (become lower) 倒下 dǎoxia to sink to the ground/floor 倒在地上/地板上 to sink down/back 倒下/仰面倒下 a shot rang out, and he slowly sank to his knees 一声枪响之后他慢慢跪到了地上 to sink under the weight of [something] literal «container» 在某物的重压下塌陷 figurative «company, person» 被某事物拖垮 bèi mǒu shìwù tuōkuǎ 
③ (go below horizon) «sun, moon» 下落 xiàluò Venus was sinking below the horizon 金星正缓缓落下地平线 
④ figurative (in strength) «person» 衰弱 shuāiruò (in volume) «voice» 变低 biàndī (in value) «currency» 贬值 biǎnzhí to sink fast 行将就木 to sink in value 贬值 biǎnzhí to sink in [somebody's] estimation 在某人心目中的地位下降 my spirits sank 我情绪低落 to sink into oblivion 逐渐被大家遗忘 to sink so low (as to do [something]) 沉沦至如此地步（以至于做出某事） 
B.  transitive verb(past tense sank, past participle sunk) 
① (in the sea) 使…沉没 shǐ… chénmò ‹ship, vessel›
② figurative (destroy) 毁掉 huǐdiào ‹hope, chance, project›to be sunk colloquial 完蛋 we'll be absolutely sunk if the train is late 如果火车晚点我们就彻底完了 
③ (lower) 放下 fàngxià ‹cable, pipe›; figurative 放低 fàngdī ‹voice›
④ (embed) 埋下 máixia ‹stake, pillar›to sink one's differences 抛开分歧 to be sunk in despair/thought; 陷入绝望/沉思中 the dog sank its teeth into my arm 狗咬了我胳膊一口 his hands were sunk deep into the pockets of his coat 他的双手深深插在外衣兜中 
⑤ (bore, excavate) 挖掘 wājué ‹shaft, tunnel›we shall have to sink a well to obtain water 我们只好打井取水了 to sink a gold mine 开掘金矿 we shall sink the swimming pool into the ground 我们要在地上挖游泳池 
⑥ Sport «snooker player» 把…击入洞中 bǎ… jīrù dòng zhōng ‹ball›; «golfer» 以…击球入洞 yǐ… jī qiú rù dòng ‹shot, putt›to sink the ball into the middle pocket 击球入中区/入袋 
⑦ BrE colloquial (drink) 猛喝 měng hē ‹beer, pint›
⑧ Finance 投入 tóurù he sank all his savings into the family business 他把自己的积蓄都投到了家族企业 
C.  noun 
① (basin) 洗碗槽 xǐwǎncáo a double sink 双水槽 
② (cesspit) 污水坑 wūshuǐkēng a sink of iniquity figurative 罪恶的巢穴 
③ before noun BrE 污秽贫困地区的 wūhuì pínkùn dìqū de ‹estate›a sink school 渣滓学校 
④ Technology 汇 huì a heat sink 热汇 a carbon sink 碳库 PHRASAL VERB sink in intransitive verb 
① (penetrate) «water, lotion» 渗入 shènrù rub the cream into your skin and let it sink in 把面霜揉进皮肤让皮肤充分吸收 
② figurative (be understood) «news, facts» 被领会 bèi lǐnghuì he read the letter twice before the meaning sank in 他把信读了两遍才搞明白意思 
sink 
▶verb
1 the coffin sank below the waves: become submerged, be engulfed, go down, drop, fall, descend. ANTONYMS float, rise.
2 the cruise liner sank yesterday: founder, go under, submerge.
3 they sank their ships: scuttle, send to the bottom; scupper.
4 the announcement sank hopes of a recovery: destroy, ruin, wreck, put an end to, demolish, smash, shatter, dash; informal put the kibosh on, put paid to; informal scupper; archaic bring to naught.
5 I sank myself in student life: immerse, submerge, plunge, lose, bury.
6 the plane sank toward the airstrip: descend, drop, go down/downward. ANTONYMS ascend.
7 the sun was sinking: set, go down/downward. ANTONYMS rise.
8 Loretta sank into an armchair: lower oneself, flop, collapse, fall, drop down, slump; informal plunk oneself.
9 her voice sank to a whisper: fall, drop, become/get quieter, become/get softer. ANTONYMS rise.
10 she would never sink to your level: stoop, lower oneself, descend.
11 he was sinking fast: deteriorate, decline, fade, grow weak, flag, waste away; be at death's door, be on one's deathbed, be slipping away; informal go downhill, be on one's last legs, be giving up the ghost. ANTONYMS recover, improve.
12 sink the pots into the ground: embed, insert, drive, plant.
13 sinking a gold mine: dig, excavate, bore, drill.
14 they sank their life savings into the company: invest, venture, risk.
▶noun he washed himself at the sink: basin, wash basin; dated lavabo.
PHRASES
sink in bad news like this often takes time to sink in: register, be understood, be comprehended, be grasped, get through. 
USAGE
sink, sank, sunk, sunken Historically, the past tense of sink has been both sank and sunk (the boat sank; the boat sunk), and the past participle has been both sunk and sunken (the boat had already sunk; the boat had already sunken). In modern English, the past is generally sank and the past participle is sunk, with the form sunken now surviving only as an adjective, as in a sunken garden or sunken cheeks.Usage notes show additional guidance on finer points of English usage.
