sit 
BrE sɪt, AmE sɪt
(present participle -tt-; past tense, past participle sat) 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (be seated) 坐 zuò to sit at a desk or table 坐在桌旁 to sit still 坐着一动不动 to sit at home (all day) （整日）闲坐在家 sitting and waiting 坐等 don't just sit there! do something! 别老坐着！做点儿事啊！ to sit at [somebody's] feet figurative 是某人的弟子 to sit on one's hands figurative 袖手旁观 to sit on one's arse figurative slang 屁都不干 to sit tight (remain in place) 守在原地 figurative (refrain from taking action) 静观事态发展 jìngguān shìtài fāzhǎn to be sitting pretty 处于极为有利的地位 
② (pose) [为画像等] 摆好坐姿 bǎihǎo zuòzhī to sit for [somebody]; 摆好姿势让某人画 
③ (meet) «committee, parliament, board of directors» 开会 kāihuì 
④ (hold office) 任职 rènzhí he sits in the House of Commons/in Congress 他在下议院/国会担任议员 to sit for …; «MP» 担任…的议员 ‹constituency›to sit as …; 担任…职务 ‹judge, magistrate›
⑤ (on hindquarters) «dog, animal» 蹲坐 dūnzuò 
⑥ (perch) 栖息 qīxī to sit on …; «bird» 栖息在…上 ‹tree, fence›
⑦ (on nest) «bird» 孵蛋 fū dàn 
⑧ (fit) «clothes, suit» 合身 héshēn ; figurative «fame, prosperity» 影响 yǐngxiǎng to sit well/badly/loosely 合身/不合身/很宽松 those trousers sit very nicely on you 你穿这条裤子很合身 greatness sits lightly on him 他对名声地位看得很淡 
⑨ (lie, be) «building» 位于 wèiyú ; «object» 搁置 gēzhì the little farmhouse sits in a fold between two hills 小农舍位于两座小山之间的山坳处 the letter was sitting unopened on his desk 那封信就放在他的写字台上没有拆开 to sit on [somebody's] tail figurative 紧随某人的车尾 to sit (heavy or heavily) on the or one's stomach «food» 难消化 his crime sat heavy on his conscience 他的罪行成了压在他良心上的沉重负担 
⑩ to sit with [something] (be harmonious with) 为…所接受 wéi… suǒ jiēshòu his shyness does not sit easily with Hollywood tradition 他的羞怯不太符合好莱坞的传统 
⑪ BrE School, University 参加考试 cānjiā kǎoshì to sit for [something]; 参加 cānjiā ‹exam›to sit for the Bar Law 参加律师考试 
B.  transitive verb 
① (put) 使坐下 shǐ zuòxia I sat the baby on my lap 我把宝宝放在腿上坐着 she sat him by the fire 她让他坐在炉火边 
② (be candidate for) 参加 cānjiā ‹exam, test›
③ (accommodate) «table, bench» 可坐下 kě zuòxia ; «auditorium, building» 能容纳 néng róngnà how many does the sofa sit? 这个沙发能坐几个人？ 
C.  reflexive verb to sit oneself; 坐下 zuòxia he sat himself at the table/desk 他在桌边/写字台边坐下了 tā zài zhuō bian/xiězìtái biān zuòxia le PHRASAL VERBS sit around, sit about intransitive verb 无所事事地闲坐 wú suǒ shì shì de xián zuò to sit around waiting 坐着干等 sit back intransitive verb 
① (lean back) 仰靠着坐 yǎngkàozhe zuò to sit back on one's heels 蜷腿仰靠坐着 
② (relax) 休息 xiūxi it's time to sit back and listen to some soothing music 现在应该放松下来听一些舒缓的音乐 sit by intransitive verb 坐视不管 zuòshì bù guǎn sit down 
A.  intransitive verb 坐下 zuòxia wait till they're all sitting down 等到他们都坐好 please sit down 请坐下 to sit down to a meal 坐下来吃饭 to sit down and do [something] 坐下来做某事 we must sit down together and settle our differences 我们必须一起坐下来解决我们之间的分歧 
B.  transitive verb[sit somebody down] 让…坐下 ràng… zuòxia they sat him down and gave him a drink 他们让他坐下，然后递给他一杯饮料 
C.  reflexive verb to sit oneself down; 坐下 zuòxia get a chair/come in and sit yourself down 拿把椅子/进来坐下吧 ná bǎ yǐzi/jìnlai zuòxia ba sit in intransitive verb 
① (as protest) «students, workers» 静坐抗议 jìngzuò kàngyì 
② to sit in on [something] (as observer) 旁听 ‹class› 列席 lièxí ‹meeting›
③ to sit in for [somebody] (be substitute for) 临时代替某人 línshí dàitì mǒu rén sit on transitive verb[sit on something] 
① (be member of) 是…的成员 shì… de chéngyuán ‹jury, board, committee›he has been invited to sit on the committee 他受邀担任委员会委员 
② colloquial (not deal with) 搁置 gēzhì ‹piece of work, document›
③ colloquial (suppress) 不发布 bù fābù ‹report, news›I want this story sat on 我要求把这件事压下来 sit out 
A.  intransitive verb 坐在外面 zuò zài wàimian to sit out in the garden 坐在花园里 
B.  transitive verb[sit something out, sit out something] 
① (stay to end of) 坚持看完 jiānchí kànwán ‹performance, play›
② (not take part in) 坐在一旁不参加 zuò zài yīpáng bù cānjiā ‹game, dance›I think I'll sit out the tango 我不想跳探戈舞 
③ (wait for end of) 熬到…结束 áodào… jiéshù ‹storm, air raid›; figurative 对…坐视不管 duì… zuòshì bù guǎn ‹crisis, war›sit through transitive verb[sit through something] 耐着性子看完 nàizhe xìngzi kànwán ‹performance, ceremony›; 耐着性子听完 nàizhe xìngzi tīngwán ‹lecture›sit up 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (raise oneself upright) 坐直 zuòzhí take your elbows off the table and sit up! 把胳膊肘从桌子上放下来，坐直！ the invalid was sitting up reading 那位病人坐起来看书了 to sit up straight 坐直 zuòzhí to make [somebody] sit up (and take notice) figurative colloquial 使某人警觉起来（开始关注） 
② (stay up late) 熬夜 áoyè to sit up doing [something]; 熬夜做某事 to sit up with [somebody]; 熬夜照顾某人 
B.  transitive verb[sit somebody/something up, sit up somebody/something] 使坐起来 shǐ zuò qilai the little girl sat her doll up in the pram 小姑娘让她的洋娃娃坐在婴儿车里 
sit 
sit

▶verb (sits, sitting; past and past participle sat 
sat
)
1 [no object] adopt or be in a position in which one's weight is supported by one's buttocks rather than one's feet and one's back is upright: you'd better sit down 
I sat next to him at dinner. 
• [with object] cause (someone) to sit: sit yourself down and I'll bring you some coffee. 
• (of an animal) rest with the hind legs bent and the body close to the ground: it is important for a dog to sit when instructed. 
• (of a bird) rest on a branch; perch. 
• (of a bird) remain on its nest to incubate its egg: (as adjective sitting) : a sitting hen. 
• [with object] ride or keep one's seat on (a horse). 
• [with object] North American not use (a player) in a game: the manager must decide who to sit in the World Series. 
• [with object] (of a table, room, or building) be large enough for (a specified number of seated people): the cathedral sat about 3,000 people. 
• (sit for) pose, typically in a seated position, for (an artist or photographer): Walter Deverell asked her to sit for him. 
• be or remain in a particular position or state: the fridge was sitting in a pool of water. 
• [with adverbial] (of an item of clothing) fit a person well or badly as specified: the blue uniform sat well on his big frame. 
• (sit with) be harmonious with: his shyness doesn't sit easily with Hollywood tradition.
2 [no object] (of a legislature, committee, court of law, etc.) be engaged in its business: Congress continued sitting until March 16. 
• serve as a member of a council, jury, or other official body: they were determined that women jurists should sit on the tribunal.
3 [with object] chiefly British take (an examination): pupils are required to sit nine subjects at GCSE 
[no object] : he was about to sit for his Cambridge entrance exam.
4 [no object, usually in combination] stay in someone's house while they are away and look after their house or pet: Kelly had been cat-sitting for me. 
• babysit. 
▶noun [in singular]
1 a period of sitting: a sit in the shade.
2 archaic the way in which an item of clothing fits someone: the sit of her gown. 
PHRASES
sit at someone's feet be someone's student or follower. sit in judgment see judgment. sit on the fence see fence. sit on one's ass vulgar slang do nothing; fail to take action. sit on one's hands take no action. sit (heavy) on the stomach (of food) take a long time to be digested. sit tight informal remain firmly in one's place. 
• refrain from taking action or changing one's mind: we're advising our clients to sit tight and neither to buy nor sell. sit up (and take notice) informal suddenly start paying attention or have one's interest aroused.PHRASAL VERBS sit back relax: sit back and enjoy the music. 
• take no action; choose not to become involved: I can't just sit back and let Betsy do all the work. sit by take no action in order to prevent something undesirable from occurring: I'm not going to sit by and let an innocent man go to jail. sit down archaic encamp outside a city in order to besiege it: with a large force he sat down before Ravenna. sit in
1 (of a group of people) occupy a place as a form of protest.
2 attend a meeting or discussion without taking an active part in it: I sat in on a training session for therapists. sit in for temporarily carry out the duties of (another person). sit on informal
1 fail to deal with: she sat on the article until a deadline galvanized her into putting words to paper.
2 subdue (someone), typically by saying something intended to discomfit or embarrass them. 
• suppress (something): tell them to sit on this story until we hear from Quinlan. sit something out not take part in a particular event or activity: he had to sit out the first playoff game. 
• wait without moving or taking action until a particular unwelcome situation or process is over: most of the workers seem to be sitting the crisis out, waiting to see what will happen. sit through stay until the end of (a tedious or lengthy meeting or performance). sit up (or sit someone up)
1 move (or cause someone to move) from a lying or slouching to a sitting position: Amy sat up and rubbed her eyes 
I'll sit you up on the pillows.
2 refrain from going to bed until a later time than usual: we sat up late to watch a horror film.ORIGIN Old English sittan, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch zitten,German sitzen, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin sedere and Greek hezesthai . usage: For guidance on the differences between sit and set, see usage at set1 .
