size
1 
BrE sʌɪz, AmE saɪz 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(dimensions) 大小 dàxiǎo the same size 一样大 a building of vast size 巨大的建筑物 of some size 很大的 chairs of all sizes 各种大小的椅子 a good size 不算小 what's the size of the house? 这房子有多大？ they were shocked by the size of his debts 他的巨额债务让他们感到震惊 forests the size of Wales 面积和威尔士一样大的森林 to increase or grow in size «plant, tree» 长高 «town, area» 变大 biàndà to be of a size; «boxes, containers, people» 同样大 the two girls are of a size 两个女孩身高相当 that's (about) the size of it colloquial 情况大概就是这样 to size 尺寸合适 to cut [somebody] down to size 使某人有自知之明 
② Uncountable and countable(number) 数量 shùliàng what's the size of the population of China? 中国的人口数量是多少？ schools/firms of all sizes 各种规模的学校/公司 to increase or grow in size «town, company» 规模得到扩大 the school has grown in size and now has 900 pupils 学校规模扩大了，现在有900名学生 
③ CountableClothing (standard measurement) 尺码 chǐmǎ what size do you take? 你穿多大号？ a small/large/medium size 小号/大号/中号 size 36 shoes 36号鞋 one size fits all 均码 to try [something] (on) for size 试试某物看尺码是否合适 figurative 试试某事物看是否合适 shìshì mǒu shìwù kàn shìfǒu héshì what size are you? 你穿多大尺码？ 
B.  -size combining form = -sized 
C.  transitive verb 
① (grade) «person, machine» 标定…的大小 biāodìng… de dàxiǎo ‹items›
② (change size of) «jeweller» 改变…的大小 gǎibiàn… de dàxiǎo ‹ring›Computing 调节…的大小 tiáojié… de dàxiǎo ‹window, font›PHRASAL VERB size up transitive verb[size somebody/something up, size up somebody/something] colloquial 估量 gūliáng ‹problem, surroundings›; 评价 píngjià ‹person›to size up the situation 判断形势 to size up who/what/where … 琢磨谁/什么/哪里… to size up what is going on 判断发生了什么事 
size
1 
sīz

▶noun
1 the relative extent of something; a thing's overall dimensions or magnitude; how big something is: the schools varied in size 
a forest the size of Connecticut 
houses of all sizes. 
• extensive dimensions or magnitude: she seemed slightly awed by the size of the building.
2 each of the classes, typically numbered, into which garments or other articles are divided according to how large they are: I can never find anything in my size. 
• a person or garment corresponding to a particular numbered size: she's a size 10. 
▶verb [with object] alter or sort in terms of size or according to size: some drills are sized in millimeters. 
• (size something up) estimate or measure something's dimensions: she was trying to size up a room with a tape measure. 
• (size someone/something up) informal form an estimate or rough judgment of someone or something: the two men sized each other up. 
▶adjective [in combination] having a specified size; sized: marble-size chunks of hail. 
PHRASES
of a size (of two or more people or things) having the same dimensions. of some size fairly large. that's about the size of it informal said to confirm someone's assessment of a situation, especially of one regarded as bad. to size to the dimensions wanted: the PVC sheet is easily cut to size.DERIVATIVES sizer 
ˈsīzər 
nounORIGIN Middle English (also in the sense ‘assize, ordinance fixing a rate of payment’): from Old French sise, from assise ‘ordinance,’ or a shortening of assize .
