skin 
BrE skɪn, AmE skɪn 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(of person, live animal) 皮肤 pífū to have dry/greasy/sensitive skin 皮肤为干性/油性/过敏性 to be no skin off one's nose or back figurative colloquial 不关自己的事 by the skin of one's teeth figurative colloquial 勉强 to get under [somebody's] skin figurative colloquial (irritate) 惹恼某人 (attract) 吸引某人 to have [somebody] under one's skin figurative colloquial 迷恋某人 to jump out of one's skin figurative colloquial 吓一大跳 to be nothing but or to be all skin and bone(s) figurative colloquial 瘦得皮包骨头 to have a thin/thick skin figurative colloquial 脸皮薄/厚 a skin like a rhinoceros 皮糙肉厚 ［指对批评或攻击不敏感］to save one's (own) skin 保全自己 to be/get soaked or wet to the skin 浑身湿透/弄得浑身湿透 
② Uncountable and countable(of dead animal) 兽皮 shòu pí 
③ Countable(of fruit, vegetable) 表皮 biǎopí 
④ Countable(of sausage) 肠衣 chángyī 
⑤ (on hot milk) 奶皮 nǎipí ; (on hot cocoa) 薄层 báocéng 
⑥ (outer layer of ship, plane) 外壳 wàiké 
⑦ colloquial = skinhead 
B.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -nn-) 
① (remove skin from) 剥去…的皮 bāoqù… de pí ‹animal›; 去…的表皮 qù… de biǎopí ‹fruit, vegetable›to keep one's eyes skinned (for [somebody]/[something]) 密切注意（某人/某事物） 
② (graze) 擦破 cāpò ‹knees, elbow›
③ AmE colloquial 欺骗 qīpiàn 
skin 
skin

▶noun
1 the thin layer of tissue forming the natural outer covering of the body of a person or animal: I use body lotion to keep my skin soft 
a flap of skin. 
• the skin of a dead animal with or without the fur, used as material for clothing or other items: is this real crocodile skin? 
• a container made from the skin of an animal such as a goat, used for holding liquids.
2 an outer layer or covering, in particular: 
• the peel or outer layer of certain fruits or vegetables. 
• the thin outer covering of a sausage. 
• a thin layer forming on the surface of certain hot liquids, such as milk, as they cool. 
• the outermost layer of a structure such as a building or aircraft. 
• Computing a customized graphic user interface for an application or operating system: music, reviews, and attitude all wrapped up in the skin of a catalog. 
• (usually skins) a strip of sealskin or other material attached to the underside of a ski to prevent a skier from slipping backward while climbing.
3 informal a skinhead.
4 (usually skins) informal (especially in jazz) a drum or drum head.
5 [as modifier] informal relating to or denoting pornographic literature or films: the skin trade. 
▶verb (skins, skinning, skinned)
1 [with object] remove the skin from (an animal or a fruit or vegetable). 
• (in hyperbolic use) punish severely: Dad would skin me alive if I forgot it. 
• scratch or scrape the skin off (a part of one's body): he scrambled down from the tree with such haste that he skinned his knees. 
• informal take money from or swindle (someone).
2 [with object] archaic cover with skin: the wound was skinned, but the strength of his leg was not restored. 
• [no object] (of a wound) form new skin: the hole in his skull skinned over. 
PHRASES
be skin and bones (of a person or animal) be very thin. by the skin of one's teeth by a very narrow margin; barely: I only got away by the skin of my teeth. [from a misquotation of Job 19:20: “I am escaped with the skin of my teeth” (i.e., and nothing else). Current use reflects a different sense.] get under someone's skin informal
1 annoy or irritate someone intensely: it was the sheer effrontery of them that got under my skin.
2 fill someone's mind in a compelling and persistent way.
3 reach or display a deep understanding of someone: movies that get under the skin of our national character. give someone (some) skin US informal shake or slap hands together as a gesture or friendship or solidarity. have a thick (or thin) skin be insensitive (or oversensitive) to criticism or insults. have skin in the game informal have a personal investment in an organization or undertaking, and therefore a vested interest in its success. it's no skin off my nose (or off my back) informal (usually spoken with emphasis on “my”) used to indicate that one is not offended or adversely affected by something: it's no skin off my nose if you don't want dessert.keep (or sleep in) a whole skin archaic escape being wounded or injured. make someone's skin (or flesh) crawl (or creep) cause someone to feel fear, horror, or disgust: a person dying in a fire—doesn't it make your skin crawl?save someone's skin see save1. there's more than one way to skin a cat proverb there's more than one way of achieving one's aim. under the skin in reality, as opposed to superficial appearances: he still believes that all women are goddesses under the skin.DERIVATIVES skinless 
ˈskinləs 
adjectiveORIGIN late Old English scinn, from Old Norse skinn; related to Dutch schinden ‘flay, peel’ and German schinden .
