slow 
BrE sləʊ, AmE sloʊ 

A.  adjective 
① (taking long time) 耗时的 hào shí de (low in speed) 缓慢的 huǎnmàn de to make slow progress/a slow recovery 进展/恢复缓慢 at a slow speed/tempo 以缓慢的速度/节拍 to be a slow grower «plant» 生长缓慢 to be a slow reader/driver 阅读/开车速度慢 a slow pace of life 慢悠悠的生活节奏 to fall into a slow decline 开始缓慢衰退 it's slow work (doing [something]) （做某事）快不得 a slow poison 慢性毒药 the slow movement Music 慢板乐章 to have a slow eye 有只眼睛不灵敏 
② (mentally dull) 迟钝的 chídùn de he's a bit slow 他有点笨 a slow learner 学东西慢的人 to be slow at or in [something]; 在…上迟钝 ‹maths›to be slow at or in doing [something]; 做某事迟钝 
③ predicative (not hasty) 慢吞吞的 màntūntūn de to be slow to do [something], to be slow in or about doing [something]; 做某事很慢 to be slow to anger/chide 不轻易生气/责备 to be slow of speech 说话慢吞吞 she's not slow to give her opinion 她会及时给出自己的意见 
④ (uneventful) 乏味的 fáwèi de ‹film, plot›; 沉闷的 chénmèn de ‹town, life›
⑤ (sluggish) 缓慢的 huǎnmàn de ‹pulse›; 不景气的 bùjǐngqì de ‹economy, business›
⑥ predicative (behind correct time) 走时慢的 zǒushí màn de to be ten minutes slow «clock, watch» 慢十分钟 màn shí fēnzhōng 
⑦ (impeding speed) 难走的 nán zǒu de ‹road, route›Sport 妨碍速度的 fáng'ài sùdù de ‹court, surface›rain made the pitch slow 下雨导致投球速度不快 
⑧ Photography 曝光慢的 bàoguāng màn de ‹film, lens›
⑨ (not hot) 烧得不旺的 shāo de bù wàng de ‹oven›; 缓慢的 huǎnmàn de ‹combustion›cook over a slow heat 用文火煮 
B.  adverb 缓慢地 huǎnmàn de to go/drive slow 慢慢走/开车 please speak a little slower 请说得慢一点 you're walking too slow colloquial 你走得太慢了 slow-cooked food 慢煮的食物 a slow-acting fertilizer 慢效肥料 slow astern/ahead! Nautical 慢速后退/前进！ a ‘slow’sign Auto 减速标志牌 
C.  intransitive verb «vehicle, runner» 减速 jiǎnsù ; «breathing, pulse» 变慢 biànmàn ; «output, demand» 减少 jiǎnshǎo ; «progress, growth» 放缓 fànghuǎn to slow to a walking pace/a stop 减慢到步行速度/减速停下来 to slow to 30 mph 减速到每小时30英里 to slow to a crawl «traffic, driver» 慢如爬行 
D.  transitive verb 使…减速 shǐ… jiǎnsù ‹vehicle, runner›; 使…变慢 shǐ… biànmàn ‹breathing, pulse›; 使…放缓 shǐ… fànghuǎn ‹progress, growth›; 减少 jiǎnshǎo ‹output, demand›to slow [somebody]/[something] to a walking pace/30 mph 使某人/某物减慢到步行速度/减速到每小时30英里 age had slowed his reactions 他上了年纪，反应慢了 PHRASAL VERBS slow down 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (reduce speed) «vehicle, runner» 减速 jiǎnsù ; «breathing, pulse» 变慢 biànmàn ; «demand, output» 减少 jiǎnshǎo ; «progress, growth» 放缓 fànghuǎn slow down a bit! 慢一点！ 
② colloquial (reduce pace of life) 放松 fàngsōng he'll never slow down 他总是闲不住 you should slow down a bit 你应该放松点 
B.  transitive verb[slow something/somebody down, slow down something/somebody] 使…减速 shǐ… jiǎnsù ‹vehicle, runner›; 使…变慢 shǐ… biànmàn ‹breathing, pulse›; 减少 jiǎnshǎo ‹demand, output›; 使…放缓 shǐ… fànghuǎn ‹progress, growth›slow up intransitive verb, transitive verb = slow down 
slow 
slō

▶adjective
1 moving or operating, or designed to do so, only at a low speed; not quick or fast: a time when diesel cars were slow and noisy 
a slow dot-matrix printer. 
• taking a long time to perform a specified action: she was a slow reader 
[with infinitive] : large organizations can be slow to change. 
• lasting or taking a long time: a slow process 
the journey home was slow. 
• [attributive] not allowing or intended for fast travel: the slow lane. 
• (of a playing field) likely to make the ball bounce or run slowly or to prevent competitors from traveling fast.
2 [predicative or as complement] (of a clock or watch) showing a time earlier than the correct time: the clock was five minutes slow.
3 not prompt to understand, think, or learn: he's so slow, so unimaginative.
4 uneventful and rather dull: a slow and mostly aimless narrative. 
• (of business) with little activity; slack: sales were slow.
5 Photography (of a film) needing long exposure. 
• (of a lens) having a small aperture.
6 (of a fire or oven) burning or giving off heat gently: bake the dish in a preheated slow oven. 
▶adverb at a slow pace; slowly: the train went slower and slower 
[in combination] : a slow-moving river. 
▶verb [no object] reduce one's speed or the speed of a vehicle or process: the train slowed to a halt 
investment has slowed down 
[with object] : he slowed the car. 
• (slow down/up) live or work less actively or intensely: I wasn't feeling well and had to slow down. 
PHRASES
slow but sure not quick but achieving the required result eventually: a slow but sure increase in the price of gold.DERIVATIVES slowish adjectiveORIGIN Old English slāw ‘slow-witted, sluggish,’ of Germanic origin. usage: The word slow is normally used as an adjective ( a slow learner; the journey was slow). It is also used as an adverb in certain specific contexts, including compounds such as slow-acting and slow-moving and in the expression go slow. Other adverbial use is informal and usually regarded as nonstandard, as in he drives too slow and go as slow as you can. In such contexts, standard English uses slowly instead. The use of slow and slowly in this respect contrasts with the use of fast, which is completely standard in use as both an adjective and an adverb; there is no word 'fastly '.
