small 
BrE smɔːl, AmE smɔl 
A. adjective 
① (not big) 小的 xiǎo de ‹object›; 矮小的 ǎixiǎo de ‹person, animal›a small hill/room/car 小山/小屋/小汽车 small size/proportion 小尺寸/小部分 to be (a bit/too) small «clothes, shoes» 穿着（有点/太）小 «hat, gloves» 戴着（有点/太）小 dàizhe(yǒudiǎn/tài)xiǎo to count in its or their own small way «aid, contribution» 有其意义 it's a small world! colloquial 世界真小啊！ the smallest room colloquial euphemistic 厕所 all creatures great and small 万物生灵 small is beautiful 小的就是好的 
② (few in number) 成员少的 chéngyuán shǎo de ‹family›; 小型的 xiǎoxíng de ‹wedding, celebration›a small crowd/quantity 一小群/少量 a small party/theatre company 小党派/小剧团 
③ (minor) 次要的 cìyào de ‹problem›; 不大的 bù dà de ‹effect, difference›; 简单的 jiǎndān de ‹task›a small mistake/change 小错误/小改动 the smallest details 微不足道的细节 
④ (young) 年幼的 niányòu de when I was small 我小时候 I was only small 那时候我还小 
⑤ usually attributive (lower-case) 小写的 xiǎoxiě de ‹letter›it's de Broglie with a small d 是de Broglie，d小写 
⑥ usually attributive pejorative (petty) 卑鄙狭隘的 bēibǐ xiá'ài de that was a small thing to do 做这事真卑鄙 to have a small mind 为人卑鄙 
⑦ attributive (not much) 极少的 jí shǎo de ‹reason, comfort›to have small cause to worry 几乎没有什么可担心的 small wonder … 怪不得… to be of no small consequence or importance 极其重要 
⑧ (quiet) 微弱的 wēiruò de ‹noise›in a small voice 小声地 
⑨ (humiliated) 丢脸的 diūliǎn de (embarrassed) 尴尬的 gāngà de to make [somebody] look/feel small (humiliated) 使某人显得/感觉很丢脸 (embarrassed) 使某人显得/感觉很尴尬 
B.  adverb 
① (into small pieces) 小块地 xiǎokuài de to cut/chop/fold [something] up small 把某物切/砍/折成小块 
② (in small size) 小规模地 xiǎo guīmó de to start small 从小本经营开始 to think/live small 思想/生活谦卑 write it smaller 把它写得再小点 
C.  noun (in) the small of the or one's back （在）后腰 (zài)hòuyāo 
D.  smalls noun plural BrE colloquial dated 小件衣服 xiǎo jiàn yīfu 
small 
▶adjective
1 a small apartment: little, compact, bijou, tiny, miniature, mini; minute, microscopic, minuscule; toy, baby; poky, cramped, boxy; informal teeny, teensy, itsy-bitsy, itty-bitty, pocket-sized, half-pint, little-bitty; Scottish wee. ANTONYMS big, large.
2 a very small man: short, little, petite, diminutive, elfin, tiny; puny, undersized, stunted, dwarfish, midget, pygmy, Lilliputian; Scottish wee; informal teeny, pint-sized. ANTONYMS large, tall, heavily built.
3 a few small changes: slight, minor, unimportant, trifling, trivial, insignificant, inconsequential, negligible, nugatory, infinitesimal; informal minuscule, piffling, piddling; Law de minimis. ANTONYMS major, substantial.
4 small helpings: inadequate, meager, insufficient, ungenerous; informal measly, stingy, mingy, pathetic. ANTONYMS ample, generous.
5 they made him feel small: foolish, stupid, insignificant, unimportant; embarrassed, humiliated, uncomfortable, mortified, ashamed; crushed. ANTONYMS proud.
6 a small business: small-scale, modest, unpretentious, humble. ANTONYMS big, large-scale, substantial.CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD small, diminutive, little, miniature, minute, petite, tiny Why do we call a house small and a woman petite ? Small and little are used interchangeably to describe people or things of reduced dimensions, but small is preferred when describing something concrete that is of less than the usual size, quantity, value, or importance (a small matter to discuss; a small room, a small price to pay). Little more often refers to concepts (through little fault of his own; an issue of little importance) or to a more drastic reduction in scale (a little shopping cart just like the one her mother used). Diminutive and petite intensify the meaning of small, particularly with reference to women's figures that are very trim and compact (with her diminutive figure, she had to shop in stores that specialized in petite sizes). Tiny is used to describe what is extremely small, often to the point where it can be seen only by looking closely (a tiny flaw in the material; a tiny insect), while minute not only describes what is seen with difficulty but may also refer to a very small amount of something (minute traces of gunpowder on his glove). Miniature applies specifically to a copy, a model, or a representation of something on a very small scale (a child's mobile consisting of miniature farm animals).These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
