smart 
BrE smɑːt, AmE smɑrt 

A.  adjective 
① (stylish, neat) 漂亮的 piàoliang de ‹appearance, clothes, car, office›a smart young officer 衣冠楚楚的年轻军官 you're looking very smart 你看上去很漂亮啊 
② (fashionable) 时尚的 shíshàng de ‹hotel, street›; 时髦的 shímáo de ‹person, group›the smart set 时髦一族 
③ (clever) 聪明的 cōngming de (shrewd) 精明的 jīngmíng de to be smart at doing [something] 做某事精明 he thinks he's so smart 他自作聪明 that wasn't very smart of you 你那件事办得不太漂亮 that was a really smart thing to do! ironic 这事干得真够高明的！ she's a smart kid 她是个聪明的孩子 
④ especially AmE colloquial (cheeky) 厚脸皮的 hòuliǎnpí de to be or get smart 放肆 don't get smart with me! 别跟我油嘴滑舌的！ 
⑤ Technology (controlled by computer programme) 智能的 zhìnéng de ‹washing machine›
⑥ (stinging) 引起剧痛的 yǐnqǐ jùtòng de ‹slap›; 尖刻的 jiānkè de ‹retort›to deal [somebody] a smart blow 狠狠打某人一下 
⑦ (brisk, sharp) 轻快的 qīngkuài de ‹pace›; 清脆的 qīngcuì de ‹crack›that was smart work! 干得真利落！ look smart (about it)! BrE 赶快（处理这件事）！ 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (sting) 引起剧痛 yǐnqǐ jùtòng the cut on my finger is smarting 我手指的伤口疼死了 his eyes smarted from the smoke 他双眼被烟熏得两眼生疼 
② figurative (mentally) 感到痛楚 gǎndào tòngchǔ to smart from [something] 因…而痛心 ‹attack, failure›he is smarting over his defeat/the insult 他因失败/受辱而难过 
C.  noun Uncountable(pain) 剧痛 jùtòng ; figurative (mental) 痛楚 tòngchǔ 
D.  smarts noun plural AmE slang (intelligence) 聪明 cōngming (shrewdness) 能干 nénggàn 
smart 
smärt

▶adjective
1 informal having or showing a quick-witted intelligence: if he was that smart he would never have been tricked. 
• (of a device) programmed so as to be capable of some independent action: hi-tech smart weapons. 
• chiefly North American showing impertinence by making clever or sarcastic remarks: don't get smart or I'll whack you one.
2 (of a person) clean, neat, and well-dressed: you look very smart. 
• (of clothes) attractively neat and stylish: a smart blue skirt. 
• (of a thing) bright and fresh in appearance: a smart green van. 
• (of a person or place) fashionable and upscale: a smart restaurant.
3 quick; brisk: I gave him a smart salute. 
• painfully severe: a dog that snaps is given a smart blow. 
▶verb [no object] (of a wound or part of the body) cause a sharp, stinging pain: the wound was smarting 
(as adjective smarting) : Susan rubbed her smarting eyes. 
• (of a person) feel upset and annoyed: chiefs of staff are still smarting from the government's cuts. 
▶noun
1 (smarts) North American informal intelligence; acumen: I don't think I have the smarts for it.
2 sharp stinging pain: the smart of the recent blood-raw cuts. 
• archaic mental pain or suffering: sorrow is the effect of smart, and smart the effect of faith. 
▶adverb archaic in a quick or brisk manner: it is better for tenants to be compelled to pay up smart. 
PHRASES
(as) smart as a whip informal, chiefly North American very quick-witted and intelligent: despite some of the things he says, he's smart as a whip.DERIVATIVES smartingly adverb. smartness 
ˈsmärtnəs 
nounORIGIN Old English smeortan (verb); related to German schmerzen; the adjective is related to the verb, the original sense (late Old English) being ‘causing sharp pain’; from this arose ‘keen, brisk,’ whence the current senses of ‘mentally sharp’ and ‘neat in a brisk, sharp style.’
