smell 
BrE smɛl, AmE smɛl 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(odour) 气味 a sweet/musty smell 香气/霉味 
② Uncountable and countable(stink) 臭味 there's a smell in here! 这里有臭味！ what a smell! 真臭！ to get rid of smells 除臭 
③ Uncountable(sense) 嗅觉 (a good/bad) sense of smell （灵敏/迟钝的）嗅觉 
④ Countableusually singular (sniff) 嗅 to have a smell of or at [something] 嗅一下某物 give it a smell 闻闻这东西 one smell of the meat and … 一闻到肉味就… 
⑤ Countableusually singular figurative (hint) 迹象 the smell of suspicion/dishonesty 怀疑/欺诈的迹象 
B.  intransitive verb(past tense, past participle smelled or especially BrE smelt) 
① (have odour) 有气味 to smell nice/awful 好闻/难闻 dinner smells good 饭真香 the wine/meat smells off 葡萄酒香气四溢/肉香扑鼻 to smell of [something]; 有…的气味 ‹socks, garlic›to smell like [something] 闻上去像 ‹curry, roses›what does it smell like? 它是什么味儿？ → rose
2 
② 
② (stink) 发臭 fāchòu your feet smell! 你的脚真臭！ his breath smells 他有口臭 to start to smell 开始发臭 it/your idea smells figurative colloquial 这事真糟糕/你这主意真馊 
③ (have sense of smell) 有嗅觉 yǒu xiùjué can fish smell? 鱼有嗅觉吗？ he can't smell anything because of his cold 他感冒了，闻不出气味 
④ figurative colloquial (be dubious) «affair, situation» 不正常 bù zhèngcháng the whole thing smells 整件事不对劲儿 to smell fishy or dodgy 可疑 to smell of racism/corruption; 有种族歧视/腐朽堕落的意味 it smells like a hoax 那像是一场恶作剧 
C.  transitive verb(past tense, past participle smelled or especially BrE smelt) 
① (notice, detect) 闻到…的气味 wéndào… de qìwèi I can smell lemons/alcohol on his breath 我闻得到他呼出的柠檬味儿/酒气 to smell ([something]) burning 闻到（某物）烧焦 
② (sniff) 嗅 xiù to smell a rose 闻一闻玫瑰 
③ figurative (identify) 察觉到 chájué dào ‹danger, problem, change›; 发现 fāxiàn ‹news scoop›; 识破 shípò ‹liar›to smell blood 察觉到对方的弱点 PHRASAL VERB smell out transitive verb[smell something out, smell out something] 
① (sniff out) 嗅出 xiùchū ‹drugs, explosives›
② figurative (identify) 查出 cháchū ‹plot, corruption, spy›
③ (fill with smell) 把…弄臭 bǎ… nòngchòu ‹room, place›
smell 
smel

▶noun the faculty or power of perceiving odors or scents by means of the organs in the nose: a highly developed sense of smell 
dogs locate the bait by smell. 
• a quality in something that is perceived by the faculty of smell; an odor or scent: lingering kitchen smells 
a smell of coffee. 
• an unpleasant odor: twenty-seven cats lived there—you can imagine the smell! 
• [in singular] an act of inhaling in order to ascertain an odor or scent: have a smell of this. 
▶verb (past and past participle smelt 
smelt
or smelled)
1 [with object] perceive or detect the odor or scent of (something): I think I can smell something burning. 
• sniff at (something) in order to perceive or detect its odor or scent: the dogs smell each other. 
• (smell something out) detect or discover something by the faculty of smell: his nose can smell out an animal from ten miles away. 
• detect or suspect (something) by means of instinct or intuition: he can smell trouble long before it gets serious 
he can smell out weakness in others.
2 [no object] emit an odor or scent of a specified kind: it smelled like cough medicine 
[with complement] : the food smelled and tasted good 
[as adjective, in combination] (-smelling) : pungent-smelling food. 
• have a strong or unpleasant odor: if I don't get a bath soon I'll start to smell 
it smells in here. 
• appear in a certain way; be suggestive of something: it smells like a hoax to me. 
PHRASES
smell blood discern weakness or vulnerability in an opponent. smell a rat informal suspect trickery or deception. smell the roses North American informal enjoy or appreciate what is often ignored. smell something up permeate an area with a bad smell: he smelled up the whole house.DERIVATIVES smellable adjective. smeller nounORIGIN Middle English: of unknown origin.
