smoke 
BrE sməʊk, AmE smoʊk 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(fumes) 烟 yān a cloud/wisp/puff of smoke 一团/一缕/一股烟 to go up in smoke colloquial «building, town» 被烧毁 figurative «plan, hopes» 化为乌有 huà wéi wūyǒu smoke and mirrors (magic trick) 障眼法 zhàngyǎnfǎ figurative 欺诈 qīzhà there's no smoke without fire, AmE where there's smoke there's fire proverb 无风不起浪 
② Countableusually singular (act of smoking) 吸烟 xīyān to go out for a (quick) smoke colloquial 出去抽（一小会儿）烟 to have a smoke 抽支烟 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (give off smoke) 冒烟 màoyān 
② (inhale tobacco) 吸烟 xīyān to stop smoking 戒烟 he smokes too much 他烟抽得很凶 to smoke like a chimney colloquial (a lot) 抽烟很凶 (constantly) 是个老烟枪 
③ (be smoky) «wood, fireplace, lamp» 多烟 duōyān to smoke badly 冒烟很厉害 
C.  transitive verb 
① (inhale) 吸 xī ‹cigarette, marijuana›to smoke a pipe/20 a day 抽烟斗/一天抽20支烟 
② Culinary 熏制 xūnzhì ‹meat, fish›smoked mackerel 熏鲭鱼 
③ (darken) 把…熏黑 bǎ… xūnhēi the smoked glass of a lens 烟色玻璃镜片 PHRASAL VERB smoke out transitive verb[smoke somebody/something out, smoke out somebody/something] 
① (drive out with smoke) 用烟把…熏出来 yòng yān bǎ… xūn chulai 
② figurative (expose) 揭露 jiēlù ‹traitor›; 查出 cháchū ‹culprit, fugitive›
smoke 
smōk

▶noun a visible suspension of carbon or other particles in air, typically one emitted from a burning substance: bonfire smoke. 
• an act of smoking tobacco: I'm dying for a smoke. 
• informal a cigarette or cigar. 
▶verb
1 [no object] emit smoke or visible vapor: heat the oil until it just smokes 
(as adjective smoking) : they huddled around his smoking fire in the winter damp. 
• inhale and exhale the smoke of tobacco or a drug: Janine was sitting at the kitchen table smoking 
(as noun smoking) : the effect of smoking on health 
[with object] : he smoked forty cigarettes a day.
2 [with object] (often as adjective smoked) cure or preserve (meat or fish) by exposure to smoke: smoked salmon. 
• treat (glass) so as to darken it: the smoked glass of his lenses. 
• fumigate, cleanse, or purify by exposure to smoke. 
• subdue (insects, especially bees) by exposing them to smoke. 
• (smoke someone/something out) drive someone or something out of a place by using smoke: we will fire the roof and smoke him out. 
• (smoke someone out) force someone to make something known: as the press smokes him out on other human rights issues, he will be revealed as a social conservative.
3 [with object] North American informal kill (someone) by shooting. 
• defeat overwhelmingly in a fight or contest.
4 
• [with object] archaic make fun of (someone): we baited her and smoked her. 
PHRASES
blow smoke try to mislead or threaten someone by giving false or exaggerated information: the coach has been blowing smoke for the past three years about our program. go up in smoke informal be destroyed by fire. 
• (of a plan) come to nothing: more than one dream is about to go up in smoke. where there's smoke there's fire proverb there's always some reason for a rumor.smoke and mirrors North American the obscuring or embellishing of the truth of a situation with misleading or irrelevant information: the budget process is an exercise in smoke and mirrors. [with reference to illusion created by magic tricks.] smoke like a chimney smoke tobacco incessantly.DERIVATIVES smokable (also smokeable) adjectiveORIGIN Old English smoca (noun), smocian (verb), from the Germanic base of smēocan ‘emit smoke’; related to Dutch smook and German Schmauch .
