smooth 
BrE smuːð, AmE smuð 

A.  adjective 
① (even, flat) 光滑的 guānghuá de ‹skin, fabric, stone›; 平坦的 píngtǎn de ‹road›; 风平浪静的 fēng píng làng jìng de ‹sea, lake›to wear or be worn smooth «tyre, tread, surface» 磨光 → baby 
A. 
① 
② (well blended) 混合均匀的 hùnhé jūnyún de ‹mixture, sauce›
③ (steady, without jolts) 平稳的 píngwěn de ‹motion›to bring the car to a smooth stop 把车停稳 to have a smooth ride/landing 平稳乘坐/降落 to write in one smooth movement 一挥而就 the smooth running of [something] 某物的顺畅运转 figurative (of organization) 某组织的平稳运作 mǒu zǔzhī de píngwěn yùnzuò 
④ (flowing) 圆润的 yuánrùn de ‹music, voice›; 流畅的 liúchàng de ‹verse, style, rhythm›
⑤ (mellow) 醇和的 chúnhé de ‹taste, drink›
⑥ figurative (problem-free) 顺利的 shùnlì de ‹event, delivery›to have a smooth journey 一路顺风 to have a smooth passage «bill» 顺利通过 
⑦ usually pejorative (suave) 圆滑的 yuánhuá de a smooth talker 油腔滑调的人 
B.  transitive verb 
① (even, flatten out) 抚平 fǔpíng ‹cloth, hair›; 磨平 mópíng ‹wood, surface›to smooth the letter flat on the table/the wallpaper into place 把信平摊在桌上/把壁纸抚平贴好 → feather 
A.  
② (remove) 消除 xiāochú ‹creases›
③ figurative (make easier) 使…顺利 shǐ… shùnlì ‹process, transition›to smooth the way (for or towards [something]/for [somebody]) （为某事物/某人）铺平道路 to smooth the path towards peace 铺平通往和平的道路 to smooth [somebody's] way or path (into business) 为某人铺平（从商的）道路 PHRASAL VERBS smooth away transitive verb[smooth something away, smooth away something] (remove) 消除 xiāochú ‹wrinkles›; figurative (solve) 解决 jiějué ‹problems›; (clear away) 扫清 sǎoqīng ‹obstacles›smooth back transitive verb[smooth something back, smooth back something] 向后理顺 xiàng hòu lǐshùn ‹hair, covering›smooth down transitive verb[smooth something down, smooth down something] 抚平 fǔpíng ‹clothing, hair›; 磨平 mópíng ‹wood, surface›smooth out transitive verb[smooth something out, smooth out something] 
① (flatten) 把…铺平 bǎ… pūpíng ‹covering, cloth›
② (remove) 消除 xiāochú ‹creases›to smooth the wrinkles out of a piece of paper 抚平纸上的褶皱 
③ figurative (lessen) 解决 jiějué ‹difficulties, problems›to smooth out the impact of [something] 消除某事物的影响 
④ Statistics 修正 xiūzhèng ‹curve, fluctuations›smooth over transitive verb[smooth something over, smooth over something] 缓和 huǎnhé ‹problems, bad feelings›; 减少 jiǎnshǎo ‹difficulties, differences›to smooth things over 平息事端 
smooth 
smo͞oT͟H

▶adjective
1 having an even and regular surface or consistency; free from perceptible projections, lumps, or indentations: smooth flat rocks 
a smooth skin tans more easily. 
• (of a liquid) with an even consistency; without lumps: cook gently until the sauce is smooth. 
• (of the sea or another body of water) without heavy waves; calm: the smooth summer sea. 
• (of movement) without jerks: the trucks gave a smooth ride 
graphics are excellent, with fast, smooth scrolling. 
• (of an action, event, or process) without problems or difficulties: the group's expansion into the 
U. 
S.  market was not quite so smooth. 
• denoting the face of a tennis or squash racket without the projecting loops from the stringing process (used as a call when the racket is spun to decide the right to serve first or to choose ends); the opposite of rough .
2 (of food or drink) without harshness or bitterness: a lovely, smooth, very fruity wine. 
• (of a person or their manner, actions, or words) suavely charming in a way considered to be unctuous: his voice was infuriatingly smooth. 
▶verb [with object] give (something) a flat, regular surface or appearance by running one's hand over it: she smoothed out the newspaper. 
• rub off the rough edges of (something): you can use sandpaper to smooth the joint. 
• deal successfully with (a problem, difficulty, or perceived fault): these doctrinal disputes were smoothed over. 
• free (a course of action) from difficulties or problems: a conference would be held to smooth the way for the establishment of the provisional government. 
• modify (a graph, curve, etc.) so as to lessen irregularities: values are collected over a long period of time so that fluctuations are smoothed out. 
▶adverb archaic in a way that is without difficulties: the course of true love never did run smooth. 
PHRASES
smooth someone's ruffled feathers see ruffle. DERIVATIVES smoothable adjective. smoothish adjectiveORIGIN Old English smōth, probably of Germanic origin, though no cognates are known. The verb dates from Middle English.
