snatch 
BrE snatʃ, AmE snætʃ 

A.  transitive verb 
① (grab) 抢走 qiǎngzǒu ‹object›; figurative 抓住 zhuāzhù ‹opportunity, moment›
② (rescue) 救回 jiùhuí ‹person›(win) 夺得 duódé ‹opportunity, victory›to snatch [somebody] from the jaws of death 把某人从鬼门关救回来 
③ (take hurriedly) 抓紧时间做 zhuājǐn shíjiān zuò to snatch a week's holiday/a few hours' sleep 抓紧时间度一周假/睡几小时 to snatch a meal/a bite to eat 匆匆吃一顿饭/吃一口东西 to snatch a kiss 飞快地吻一下 
④ colloquial (steal) 抢夺 qiǎngduó (kidnap) 绑架 bǎngjià 
B.  intransitive verb 争抢 zhēngqiǎng children, don't snatch! 孩子们，不要抢！ to snatch at [something]; 抓取 ‹object› figurative 争取 zhēngqǔ ‹opportunity›
C.  noun 
① (grab) 抓 zhuā to make a snatch at [something] 伸手去抓某物 a quick snatch of breath 快速吸气 
② colloquial (theft) 抢夺 qiǎngduó (kidnapping) 绑架 bǎngjià a wages snatch 抢工资 
③ (fragment) 片段 piànduàn a brief snatch of sleep 片刻小睡 a snatch of their conversation 他们谈话的只言片语 I remember odd snatches of the song 我只记得歌曲的零星片段 
④ (in weightlifting) 抓举 zhuājǔ 
⑤ vulg (female genitals) 阴户 yīnhù PHRASAL VERB snatch away transitive verb[snatch something away, snatch away something] 一把拿走 yībǎ názǒu 
snatch 
snaCH

▶verb [with object] quickly seize (something) in a rude or eager way: she snatched a cookie from the plate 
figurative : a victory snatched from the jaws of defeat. 
• informal steal (something) or kidnap (someone), typically by seizing or grabbing suddenly: a mission to snatch Winston Churchill. 
• [no object] (snatch at) hastily or ineffectually attempt to seize (something): she snatched at the handle. 
• quickly secure or obtain (something) when a chance presents itself: we snatched a few hours' sleep. 
• [no object] (snatch at) eagerly take or accept (an offer or opportunity): I snatched at the chance. 
▶noun
1 an act of snatching or quickly seizing something: a quick snatch of breath. 
• a short spell of doing something: brief snatches of sleep. 
• a fragment of song or talk: picking up snatches of conversation. 
• informal a kidnapping or theft.
2 Weightlifting the rapid raising of a weight from the floor to above the head in one movement.
3 vulgar slang a woman's genitals. DERIVATIVES snatcher 
ˈsnaCHər 
noun. snatchy 
ˈsnaCHē 
adjectiveORIGIN Middle English sna(c)che (verb) ‘suddenly snap at,’ (noun) ‘a snare’; perhaps related to snack .
