snow 
BrE snəʊ, AmE snoʊ 

A.  nounUncountable
① (ice crystals) 雪 xuě a fall of snow 下雪 xiàxuě 
② Television [电视或雷达屏幕上的] “雪花” “ xuěhuā ” 
③ colloquial (cocaine) 白面儿 báimiànr 
B.  snows noun plural 降雪 jiàngxuě the eternal snows of the Frozen North 严寒北方的永久积雪 
C.  impersonal verb 下雪 xiàxuě it's snowing; 下雪了 
D.  transitive verb AmE colloquial 用花言巧语蒙骗 yòng huā yán qiǎo yǔ mēngpiàn to snow [somebody] into doing [something]; 用花言巧语哄某人做某事 PHRASAL VERBS snow in: transitive verbusually passive to be snowed in; «person, family» 被雪困住 «house, farm» 被雪封住 bèi xuě fēngzhù snow under: transitive verbusually passive to be snowed under; (covered with snow) «fields, village» 被雪覆盖 figurative (inundated with work, letters, etc.) 应接不暇 yìngjiē bù xiá I'm snowed under with work at the moment 眼下我正忙得不可开交 snow up transitive verb = snow in 
snow 
snō

▶noun
1 atmospheric water vapor frozen into ice crystals and falling in light white flakes or lying on the ground as a white layer: we were trudging through deep snow 
the first snow of the season.
2 something that resembles snow in color or texture, in particular: 
• a mass of flickering white spots on a television or radar screen, caused by interference or a poor signal. 
• informal cocaine. 
• a dessert or other dish resembling snow: vanilla snow. 
• [with modifier] a frozen gas resembling snow: carbon dioxide snow. 
▶verb
1 [no object] (it snows, it is snowing, etc.) snow falls: it's not snowing so heavily now. 
• (be snowed in) be confined or blocked by a large quantity of snow: I was snowed in for a week.
2 [with object] North American informal mislead or charm (someone) with elaborate and insincere words: they would snow the public into believing that all was well. PHRASAL VERBS be snowed under be overwhelmed with a large quantity of something, especially work: he's been snowed under with urgent cases.DERIVATIVES snowless adjective. snowlike 
-ˌlīk 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English snāw, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch sneeuw and German Schnee, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin nix, niv- and Greek nipha .
