something 
BrE ˈsʌmθɪŋ, AmE ˈsəmˌθɪŋ 

A.  pronoun 
① (unspecified thing) 某事物 mǒu shìwù you learn something new every day 你每天都学新东西 something happened 发生了一件事 go and put something on! 去穿点衣服！ would you like something to eat? 你想吃点什么吗？ there's something odd about her 她有点儿怪 he’s something in television 他是做电视的 something to do with [somebody]/[something]; 与某人/某事物有关 his job is something to do with oil 他的工作与石油有关 to get something for nothing 不劳而获 something or other 某个事物 they were protesting about something or other 他们正在对一件什么事表示抗议 she’s a professor of something or other at Leeds 她是利兹大学某个学科的教授 something else 另外一件事 it's something else! (another thing) 这是另一码事！ colloquial (exceptional person) 这人出类拔萃！ zhè rén chū lèi bá cuì ！ (exceptional thing) 这事很棒！ zhè shì hěn bàng ！ the reaction from the crowd was something else colloquial 人群的反应有点异常 
② (thing of importance, value, etc.) 重要的事 zhòngyào de shì it means something to her 这对她意义重大 there's something in what he says 他的话不无道理 you've got something there! 你说得真好！ do you want to make something (out) of it? 你想找茬吗？ to make something of oneself or one's life 有所成就 to have a certain something 具有某种魅力 that little boy is quite something! 那小男孩确实了不起！ 
③ (some money) 小费 xiǎofèi did you leave something for the waiter? 你给服务员留小费了吗？ we gave him something for his trouble 他辛苦了一趟，我们给了他赏钱 
④ (forgotten or unknown name etc.) …什么的 … shénme de (forgotten or unknown amount etc.) 大约 dàyuē his name's Andy something 他的名字叫安迪什么的 he's six foot something 他大约6英尺高 in nineteen-sixty-something 在大约20世纪60年代 or something 诸如此类的事 do you want to phone or something? 你想打电话还是做什么？ are you stupid or something? 你傻了还是怎么的？ 
B.  adverb 
① (a little) 有点 yǒudiǎn it tastes something like melon 这吃起来有点像甜瓜 something under
20 people 不太够20人 they pay six pounds an hour; something like that 他们按每小时6英镑付费；差不多就是这个数吧 something between 50% and 70% 大概在50％到70％之间 
② colloquial (extremely) 非常 fēicháng she was swearing something terrible 她骂得难听极了 he was carrying on something awful 他胡闹得太不像话了 
C.  something of adverb phrase 相当 xiāngdāng he is something of a writer 他可以说是个作家 it was something of a surprise 这有点出人意料 the evening was something of a disaster 那个晚上可以说是个灾难 
something 
ˈsəmˌTHiNG

▶pronoun
1 a thing that is unspecified or unknown: we stopped for something to eat 
I knew something terrible had happened 
something about her frightened me.
2 used in various expressions indicating that a description or amount being stated is not exact: a wry look, something between amusement and regret 
grassland totaling something over three hundred acres 
there were something like fifty applications. 
▶adverb [as submodifier]
1 informal used for emphasis with a following adjective functioning as an adverb: my back hurts something terrible.
2 archaic or dialect to some extent; somewhat: the people were something scared. 
PHRASES
or something informal added as a reference to an unspecified alternative similar to the thing mentioned: you look like you just climbed a mountain or something. really (or quite) something informal something considered impressive or notable: Want to see the library? It's really something. something else informal an exceptional person or thing: the reaction from the crowd was something else. something of to some degree: Richard was something of an expert at the game. something or other see other. there is something in/to —— —— is worth considering; there is some truth in ——: perhaps there is something to his theory 
I think there's something in this alien business. thirty-something (forty-something, etc.) informal an unspecified age between thirty and forty (forty and fifty, etc.): I'm guessing she's forty-something 
[as noun] : she writes a column geared to twenty- and thirty-somethings.ORIGIN Old English sum thing (see some, thing) .
