sorry 
BrE ˈsɒri, AmE ˈsɑri, ˈsɔri 
adjective 
① predicative (apologetic) 抱歉的 bàoqiàn de I'm (terribly) sorry, I haven't a clue （非常）抱歉，我一点都不知道 he didn't look the slightest bit sorry 他看似毫无歉意 to be sorry about [something]; 为某事物抱歉 (I'm really) sorry about the mess （非常）抱歉，这里太乱了 to be sorry for [something]/doing [something]; 为某事物/做某事而抱歉 sorry for breaking your vase/the delay 对不起，把你的花瓶打碎了/耽搁时间了 to be sorry to do/be …; 因为做/是…而感到抱歉 I'm sorry to be a nuisance but … 抱歉打扰你了，可是… to be sorry that …; 为…抱歉 sorry I'm late 对不起，我来晚了 to say (that one is) sorry 道歉 (I'm) sorry if I am interrupting/was rude 抱歉，我想打断一下/失礼了 sorry, but we can't serve children 抱歉，我们不接待儿童 we are sorry to inform you that … 我们抱歉地告知您… I'm sorry to disappoint you 抱歉，让您失望了 
② predicative (sympathetic) 难过的 nánguò de to be sorry about [something]; 为某事物而难过 he was sorry about what had happened to her 他同情她的遭遇 to be sorry that …; 为…而难过 
③ predicative (regretful) 后悔的 hòuhuǐ de to be sorry that …; 为…而后悔 to be sorry to do [something]; 为做某事而后悔 no one will be sorry to say goodbye 大家都巴不得说再见 to be sorry at or about [something]; 因某事物而后悔 you'll be sorry about this later 你以后会为此后悔的 to feel sorry 感到后悔 → safe 
A. 
⑥ 
④ predicative (correcting oneself) 不对 bùduì [用于纠正自己的话]his name's Johnson, sorry, Jason 他叫约翰逊，不好意思，是贾森 
⑤ predicative especially BrE (requesting repeat) [用于听不清时请求对方重复]you can't go — sorry? 你不能去──你说什么？ 
⑥ predicative (pitying) 可惜的 kěxī de (feeling pity and disapproval) 遗憾的 yíhàn de to be or feel sorry for [somebody]; (sympathetic) 同情某人 (feeling pity and disapproval) 觉得某人倒霉 to be or feel sorry for oneself; (self-pitying) 自怨自怜 
⑦ attributive (pathetic) 悲惨的 bēicǎn de (deplorable) 可悲的 kěbēi de a sorry bunch of failures 一群可悲的失败者 a sorry state of affairs 悲惨的处境 to be in a sorry state or plight 处境悲惨 to cut a sorry figure (pathetic) 显得很悲惨 (undignified) 显得很不像样 
⑧ attributive (worthless) 徒劳的 túláo de ‹attempt, excuse›
⑨ attributive (saddening) 令人伤心的 lìng rén shāngxīn de ‹story, sight›
sorry 
ˈsärē ˈsôrē

▶adjective (sorrier, sorriest)
1 [predicative] feeling distress, especially through sympathy with someone else's misfortune: I was sorry to hear about what happened to your family. 
• (sorry for) filled with compassion for: he couldn't help feeling sorry for her when he heard how she'd been treated. 
• feeling regret or penitence: he said he was sorry he had upset me 
I'm sorry if I was a bit brusque. 
• used as an expression of apology: sorry—I was trying not to make a noise. 
• used as a polite request that someone should repeat something that one has failed to hear or understand: Sorry? In case I what?
2 [attributive] in a poor or pitiful state or condition: he looks a sorry sight with his broken jaw. 
• unpleasant and regrettable, especially on account of incompetence or misbehavior: we feel so ashamed that we keep quiet about the whole sorry business. 
PHRASES
be sorry to say used to express disappointment or regret: I'm sorry to say that I don't have alternative contact details. sorry for oneself sad and self-pitying. sorry (I'm) not sorry US informal used to express a lack of regret or repentance: I'm not a fan of the song, sorry not sorry.DERIVATIVES sorrily 
ˈsärəlē, sô- 
adverb. sorriness nounORIGIN Old English sārig ‘pained, distressed,’ from the base of the noun sore. The shortening of the root vowel has given the word an apparent connection with the unrelated sorrow .
