south 
BrE saʊθ, AmE saʊθ 

A.  nounUncountable(direction) 南 nán (position or location) 南方 nánfāng (southern part) 南部 nánbù the sun/wind is in the south 太阳在南面/吹的是南风 
B.  adjective 
① (southern) 南边的 nánbian de on the south side of the island 在岛屿的南侧 the south bank/coast 南河岸/南海岸 
② attributive (from the south) 来自南边的 láizì nánbian de a south wind 南风 
C.  adverb 
① (to the south, on the southern side) 在南边 zài nánbian south of [something] 在某物的南边 
② (towards the south) 向南 xiàng nán due south 向正南 to go south of [something] 向某物的南面走去 down south 向南部 due south 正南方 to be heading south figurative colloquial 滑坡 
south 
souTH

▶noun (usually the south)
1 the direction toward the point of the horizon 90° clockwise from east, or the point on the horizon itself: the breeze came from the south 
they trade with the countries to the south. 
• the compass point corresponding to this.
2 the southern part of the world or of a specified country, region, or town: he was staying in the south of France. 
• (usually the South) the southern states of the U
S. 
3 [as name] (South) Bridge the player sitting opposite and partnering North. 
▶adjective [attributive]
1 lying toward, near, or facing the south: the south coast. 
• (of a wind) blowing from the south.
2 of or denoting the southern part of a specified area, city, or country or its inhabitants: Telegraph Hill in South Boston. 
▶adverb
1 to or toward the south: they journeyed south along the valley 
it is handily located ten miles south of Baltimore.
2 (south of) below (a particular amount, cost, etc.): media spending last year was south of $1 million. 
▶verb [no object] move toward the south: the wind southed a point or two. 
• (of a celestial body) cross the meridian. 
PHRASES
down south informal to or in the south of a country. go south informal, chiefly North American fall in value, deteriorate, or fail. south by east (or west) between south and south-southeast (or south-southwest).ORIGIN Old English sūth, of Germanic origin; related to Low German sud .
