spare 
BrE spɛː, AmE spɛr 

A.  adjective 
① (not occupied) 闲置的 xiánzhì de ‹room, desk›(not used) 不用的 bùyòng de (in reserve) 备用的 bèiyòng de a spare bed/seat 空床/空座 spare cash for the book/winter holiday 买书/过寒假的闲钱 will there be any spare men/women at the party? colloquial 聚会上会有没伴的男人/女人吗？ do you have a spare shirt by any chance? 或许你有不穿的衬衫？ a spare ticket for the match 比赛多余的门票 to be going spare BrE colloquial 没人要 this food/desk is going spare 这些食物没人想吃/这张书桌没人用 
② (free) 空闲的 kòngxián de ‹time›do you have a spare minute? 你现在有空吗？ not to have a spare moment 没有一点空 
③ (lean) 瘦削的 shòuxuē de to be spare of build or stature 体形瘦削 his body was lean and spare 他骨瘦如柴 
④ (elegantly simple) 简朴的 jiǎnpǔ de ‹decoration, style›the precise, spare movements of the dancers 舞蹈演员们准确而简洁的动作 
⑤ (meagre) 简单的 jiǎndān de ‹diet, meal›
⑥ predicative BrE colloquial (frantic) to go spare; 气急败坏 qìjí bàihuài to drive [somebody] spare (with worry) 使某人（忧虑得）发狂 shǐ mǒu rén(yōulǜ de)fākuáng 
B.  noun (object) 备用品 bèiyòngpǐn (component) 备件 bèijiàn (wheel) 备用轮 bèiyònglún (tyre) 备用胎 bèiyòngtāi (ticket) 余票 yúpiào a set of spares 一套备用品 have my pen: I've got a spare 用我的钢笔吧，我还有一支 take a spare (just in case) 带一件备用（以防万一）吧 spares for [something] 某物的配件 
C.  transitive verb 
① (give, lend) 匀出 yúnchū (be able to afford to give or spend) 花得起 huādeqǐ (make available) 拿得出 nádechū can you spare a cigarette? 能给我一支烟吗？ I've got plenty of pens, so I suppose I can spare one 我有很多钢笔，所以我想我可以让出一支 if you can spare a moment, … 如果你能空出一点时间的话，… I can spare
5 minutes 我能抽出5分钟 can you spare me ten pounds? 你能借给我10英镑吗？ I can't spare the time to stand about chatting to you! 我可没闲功夫站在一边跟你聊天！ I can spare £250 for Christmas presents 我可以拿出250英镑买圣诞礼物 to spare a thought for [somebody] 为某人着想 to have [something] to spare; 有多余的某物 there's no time to spare! 不能再耽搁了！ I had no energy/time to spare for the housework 我没力气/时间做家务 I caught the train with only a couple of minutes to spare 我赶上火车时就剩几分钟了 that turkey will feed ten people with some to spare 那只火鸡十个人也吃不完 they won the match with something to spare 他们没费全力就赢了比赛 
② colloquial (manage without) 用不着 yòngbuzháo ‹person›I just can't spare him today 我今天实在缺不了他 
③ (treat leniently) 放过 fàngguo the plague did not spare any of the villagers 村民们无一幸免于瘟疫 to spare [somebody's] life 饶某人的命 please spare me! 求求你饶了我吧！ if I'm spared humorous 如果我能活下来 the lumberjack spared a few trees 伐木工人留了几棵树没砍 to be spared from demolition «building» 未遭毁坏 the report spares no one (criticizes all) 这份报告批评了所有人 (blames all) 这份报告认为所有人都有责任 to spare [somebody's] feelings 照顾某人的感受 
④ (protect from) 免去 miǎnqù to spare [somebody] [something]; 为某人免除某事 try to spare her as much distress as possible 尽量不要让她难受 I'll spare you the suspense, and tell you exactly what happened 我就不卖关子了，直接告诉你发生了什么事吧 I'll spare you the job of washing up 我就免了你洗碗吧 I just wanted to spare her any trouble 我就是不想让她受累 to spare [somebody] the details 不告诉某人细节 spare me the sarcasm 没必要对我冷嘲热讽吧 to spare [somebody] the expense of [something]/doing [something] 省去某人购买某物/做某事的花费 he was spared his life 他捡回了一条命 the surgeon spared him the knife humorous 外科医生没有给他做手术 the north will be spared much of the bad weather 这种糟糕的天气将基本不会出现在北方 
⑤ (withhold) 吝惜 lìnxī to spare no effort/inconvenience/pains (doing or to do [something]) （做某事）不遗余力/不厌其烦/不辞辛劳 no trouble was spared to ensure our comfort 为了保证我们的舒适，什么办法都用过了 spare your pains: I've done it myself! 不用麻烦了，我自己已经做好了！ a willing helper who never spares any effort 竭诚助人的人 
D.  reflexive verb 
① (not make effort) not to spare oneself 不遗余力 bù yí yú lì 
② (avoid) to spare oneself expense/effort; 节省开支/少费劲 jiéshěng kāizhī/shǎo fèijìn to spare oneself an unnecessary trip 省得跑一趟 shěng de páo yī tàng to spare oneself the bother or trouble (of doing [something]) 避免（做某事的）麻烦 bìmiǎn(zuò mǒu shì de)máfan 
spare 
sper

▶adjective
1 additional to what is required for ordinary use: few people had spare cash for inessentials. 
• not currently in use or occupied: the spare bedroom.
2 with no excess fat; thin: a spare, bearded figure. 
• elegantly simple: her clothes are smart and spare in style. 
• meager; nearly inadequate: the furnishings were spare and unadorned. 
▶noun
1 an item kept in case another item of the same type is lost, broken, or worn out. 
• a spare tire: make sure there are no problems with any of the tires, including the spare.
2 (in tenpin bowling) an act of knocking down all the pins with two consecutive rolls of the ball. 
▶verb
1 [with two objects] give (something of which one has enough) to (someone); afford to give to: she asked if I could spare her a dollar or two. 
• make free or available: I'm sure you can spare me a moment. 
• [no object] archaic be frugal: but some will spend, and some will spare.
2 [with object] refrain from killing, injuring, or distressing: there was no way the men would spare her. 
• [with two objects] refrain from inflicting (something) on (someone): the country had until now been spared the violence occurring elsewhere. 
• (spare oneself) [with negative] try to ensure or satisfy one's own comfort or needs: in her concern to help others, she has never spared herself. 
PHRASES
go spare British informal
1 become extremely angry or distraught: he'd go spare if he lost the money.
2 be unwanted or not needed and therefore available for use: I didn't have much money going spare. spare no effort do everything one possibly can in order to achieve something: we will spare no effort to secure the release of the captives. spare no expense (or no expense spared) pay any amount in order to achieve something.spare the rod and spoil the child see rod. spare a thought for chiefly British remember: spare a thought for our volunteer group at Christmas. to spare left over: that turkey will feed ten people with some to spare.DERIVATIVES sparely 
ˈsperlē 
adverb. spareness noun. sparer noun ( rare)ORIGIN Old English spær ‘not plentiful, meager,’ sparian ‘refrain from injuring,’ ‘refrain from using,’ of Germanic origin; related to Dutch and German sparen ‘to spare.’
