spark 
BrE spɑːk, AmE spɑrk 

A.  noun 
① (from fire) 火花 huǒhuā (the) sparks will fly (there will be an argument) 会发生激烈争吵 (there will be a fight) 会打架 to strike sparks off each other 互相启发 
② Electricity 电火花 diànhuǒhuā 
③ figurative (sparkle) 闪现 shǎnxiàn there was a spark of mischief/excitement/interest in her eyes 她的眼睛闪出一丝调皮/兴奋/兴致 
④ figurative (small amount) 一点儿 yīdiǎnr he hasn't a spark of generosity/decency in him 他没有一点起码的宽宏/体面 
B.  intransitive verb «fire» 飞火星 fēi huǒxīng ; «firework, electrical appliance» 冒火花 mào huǒhuā 
C.  transitive verb «event, electrical failure» 引发 yǐnfā the explosion sparked a fire 爆炸引起了火灾 PHRASAL VERB spark off transitive verb 
① [spark off something], [spark something off] (provide stimulus for) 引起 yǐnqǐ ‹conflict, riot, controversy›
② [spark off somebody] (stimulate mentally) 启发 qǐfā 
spark
1 
spärk

▶noun
1 a small fiery particle thrown off from a fire, alight in ashes, or produced by striking together two hard surfaces such as stone or metal. 
• a light produced by a sudden disruptive electrical discharge through the air. 
• an electrical discharge serving to ignite the explosive mixture in an internal combustion engine. 
• a small bright object or point: there was a spark of light.
2 a trace of a specified quality or intense feeling: a tiny spark of anger flared within her. 
• a sense of liveliness and excitement: there was a spark between them at their first meeting. 
▶verb
1 [no object] emit sparks of fire or electricity: the ignition sparks as soon as the gas is turned on. 
• produce sparks at the point where an electric circuit is interrupted.
2 [with object] ignite: the explosion sparked a fire. 
• provide the stimulus for (a dramatic event or process): the severity of the plan sparked off street protests. 
PHRASES
spark out British informal completely unconscious: I think he would knock Bowe spark out. sparks fly an encounter becomes heated or lively: sparks always fly when you two get together.DERIVATIVES sparker noun. sparkless adjectiveORIGIN Old English spærca, spearca, of unknown origin.
