spill
1 
BrE spɪl, AmE spɪl 

A.  intransitive verb(past tense, past participle spilt or spilled) 
① (pour out) 溢出 yìchū to spill from or out of [something]; 从某物中溢出 to spill over/on to [something]; «ink, salt» 洒满某处/洒到某物上 the water spilt all over the floor 水泼了一地 the wind spilt from the sail 风对帆的压力减小了 
② (disgorge) «contents, load» 散落 sànluò ; figurative «light» 散射 sǎnshè the coins spilt on to the floor 硬币散落到了地板上 the crowds spilled into the street 人群涌到了街上 
B.  transitive verb(past tense, past participle spilt or spilled) 
① (tip out) 使…溢出 shǐ… yìchū ‹liquid›; 使…散落 shǐ… sànluò ‹powder, salt›to spill water/salt from or out of [something]; 把水/盐从某物中洒出来 he spilt wine down his suit 他把葡萄酒洒在了西装上 to spill blood (shed blood) 流血 (kill) 杀死 much innocent blood was spilt (blood was shed) 很多无辜的人流血了 (people were killed) 很多无辜的人被杀了 it is no use crying over spilt milk proverb 覆水难收 to spill the wind from the sail 减小风对帆的压力 
② (overturn) 打翻 dǎfān to spill [somebody's] drink 弄翻某人的饮料 
③ (disgorge) 使…散落 shǐ… sànluò ‹contents, load›the sack burst and spilt grain all over the floor 麻袋破了，粮食洒了一地 
④ colloquial (reveal) (deliberately) 透露 tòulù (unintentionally) 泄露 xièlòu who spilt the news? 是谁走漏了风声？ to spill the beans 泄露消息 ［尤指泄密］
⑤ (unseat) «horse, bicycle» 把…摔下来 bǎ… shuāi xialai ‹rider›
C.  noun 
① (liquid spilt) 溢出物 yìchūwù 
② (spilling action) 溢出 yìchū 
③ (fall from horse, bicycle) 摔下 shuāixia there were many spills at the gymkhana 那次马术比赛中有很多人摔下来 to have a spill 摔下来 a nasty spill 重重的一摔 PHRASAL VERBS spill out 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (pour out) «liquid, powder» 洒出 sǎchū 
② (be disgorged) «contents, load» 散落 sànluò ; «crowd» 涌出 yǒngchū to spill out on to the pavement/into the street 涌上人行道/涌到街上 
③ colloquial (be revealed) 被泄露 bèi xièlòu (become known) 被公开 bèi gōngkāi 
B.  transitive verb[spill something out, spill out something] 
① (disgorge) 使…散落 shǐ… sànluò ‹contents, load›
② (reveal) 泄露 xièlòu she spilt out the whole story 她把事情原原本本说了出来 to spill out one's troubles to [somebody] 向某人倾诉烦恼 spill over intransitive verb 
① (overflow) 溢出 yìchū the milk boiled and spilled over 牛奶潽出来了 to spill over on to [something]; 溢到某物上 five years of frustration spilt over into violence 五年的挫败感最终演化成了暴力 
② (spread beyond boundary) 涌出 yǒngchū to spill over on to the pavement/into the neighbouring country 涌上人行道/涌入邻国 
spill
1 
spil

▶verb (past and past participle spilt 
spilt
or spilled) [with object] cause or allow (liquid) to flow over the edge of its container, especially unintentionally: you'll spill that coffee if you're not careful 
figurative : azaleas spilled cascades of flowers over the pathways. 
• [no object] (of liquid) flow over the edge of its container: some of the wine spilled onto the floor 
figurative : light spilled into the room from the landing. 
• (with reference to the contents of something) empty out or be emptied out onto a surface: [no object] : passengers' baggage had spilled out of the hold 
[with object] : injured cells tend to swell up and burst, spilling their contents. 
• [no object] (of a number of people) move out of somewhere quickly: students began to spill out of the building. 
• informal reveal (confidential information) to someone: he was reluctant to spill her address. 
• cause (someone) to fall off a horse or bicycle: the horse was wrenched off course, spilling his rider. 
• Sailing let (wind) out of a sail, typically by slackening the sheets. 
• British (in the context of ball games) drop (the ball). 
▶noun
1 a quantity of liquid that has spilled or been spilled: a 25-ton oil spill 
wipe up spills immediately 
figurative : their shifting spill of lantern-light. 
• an instance of a liquid spilling or being spilled: he was absolved from any blame for the oil spill.
2 a fall from a horse or bicycle: Granddad took a spill while riding the bay mare. 
PHRASES
spill the beans informal reveal secret information unintentionally or indiscreetly. spill (someone's) blood kill or wound people. spill one's guts informal reveal copious information to someone in an uninhibited way.PHRASAL VERBS spill over (of a bad situation or strong emotion) reach a point at which it can no longer be controlled or contained: years of frustration spilled over into violence.DERIVATIVES spiller 
ˈspilər 
nounORIGIN Old English spillan ‘kill, destroy, waste, shed (blood)’; of unknown origin.
