spiral 
BrE ˈspʌɪr(ə)l, AmE ˈspaɪrəl 

A.  adjective 螺旋形的 luóxuánxíng de ‹staircase, motif, horns, structure, spring›
B.  noun 
① (curve, shape, pattern) 螺旋形 luóxuánxíng in a spiral 以螺旋形 a right-/left-handed spiral 向右/向左旋转的螺旋形 
② Economics (progressive rise) 不断上升 bùduàn shàngshēng (progressive fall) 不断下降 bùduàn xiàjiàng an inflationary spiral 日益恶化的通货膨胀 a spiral of violence 暴力升级 a downward/upward spiral 螺旋式下降/上升 
C.  intransitive verb(present participle etc. -ll- BrE, -l- AmE ) 
① (move upward) 螺旋式上升 luóxuánshì shàngshēng (move downward) 螺旋式下降 luóxuánshì xiàjiàng to spiral up or upwards/down or downwards 螺旋式上升/下降 to spiral to [something]; (moving upward) 盘旋上升到某物上 (moving downward) 盘旋下降到某物上 the leaf spiralled to the ground 叶子旋转着飘落到地上 
② Economics (increase continuously) 持续上升 chíxù shàngshēng (decrease continuously) 持续下降 chíxù xiàjiàng 
spiral 
ˈspīrəl

▶adjective winding in a continuous and gradually widening (or tightening) curve, either around a central point on a flat plane or about an axis so as to form a cone: a spiral pattern. 
• winding in a continuous curve of constant diameter about a central axis, as though along a cylinder; helical. 
• (of a staircase) constantly turning in one direction as it rises, around a solid or open center. 
• Medicine (of a fracture) curving around a long bone lengthwise. 
• short for spiral-bound: a spiral notebook. 
▶noun
1 a spiral curve, shape, or pattern: he spotted a spiral of smoke. 
• a spiral spring. 
• Astronomy short for spiral galaxy.
2 a progressive rise or fall of prices, wages, etc., each responding to an upward or downward stimulus provided by a previous one: an inflationary spiral. 
• a process of deterioration through the continuous increase or decrease of a specified feature: a downward spiral of sex and drink.
3 American Football a pass or kick that moves smoothly through the air while spinning on its long axis. 
▶verb (spirals, spiraling, spiraled American Football spirals, spiralling, spiralled)
1 [no object] move in a spiral course: a wisp of smoke spiraled up from the trees. 
• [with object] cause to have a spiral shape or follow a spiral course: spiral the bandage around the injured limb.
2 [no object] show a continuous and dramatic increase: inflation continued to spiral 
(as adjective spiraling) : he needed to relax after the spiraling tensions of the day. 
• (spiral down/downward) decrease or deteriorate continuously: he expects the figures to spiral down further. DERIVATIVES spirally 
ˈspīrəlē 
adverbORIGIN mid 16th century (as an adjective): from medieval Latin spiralis, from Latin spira ‘coil’ (see spire2) .
