splash 
BrE splaʃ, AmE splæʃ 
A. noun 
① (sound) 溅泼声 jiànpō shēng (effect) 飞溅 fēijiàn to go splash 发出扑通声 to fall into the water with a splash 扑通一声落入水中 to make a (big) splash 溅起（一大片）水花 
② figurative colloquial (sensation) 轰动 hōngdòng to make a splash 惹人注目 to cause or make quite a splash «news, scandal» 引起很大的轰动 
③ (paddle, swim) 戏水 xìshuǐ to go for a splash 去游一会儿泳 
④ (spot) (of water) 溅上的液体 jiànshang de yètǐ (of mud) 溅上的泥点 jiànshang de nídiǎn splashes of water on the floor 地板上的一摊摊水渍 
⑤ (patch of colour) 色块 sèkuài a splash of white 白斑 
⑥ colloquial (small amount) [掺入的] 少量 shǎoliàng to add a splash of milk 稍加点儿牛奶 
B.  transitive verb 
① (spatter, spray) 溅起 jiànqǐ ‹water›; 溅湿 jiànshī ‹person›to splash mud all over [somebody]/[something] 把泥浆溅得某人浑身都是/溅得某物到处都是 he got splashed as the car drove through the puddle 车子开过水坑时溅了他一身水 to splash one's way through a swamp 哗哗地趟水穿过沼泽 
② (sprinkle) 泼 pō to splash water on (to) one's face, to splash one's face with water 往脸上泼水 to splash each other with water 互相泼水 
③ usually passive (decorate) [用颜料等] 泼洒 pōsǎ a towel splashed with blue and green 泼洒有蓝色和绿色的毛巾 
④ Journalism 在显著位置刊登 zài xiǎnzhù wèizhi kāndēng to be splashed across the front pages 刊登在头版的显著位置 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (spatter) 溅落 jiànluò raindrops splashing against the windscreen 劈里啪啦打在挡风玻璃上的雨点 water was splashing from the tap 水从龙头里哗哗地流出来 
② (move with splashing action) to splash across the river 哗哗地趟水过河 huāhuā de tāng shuǐ guò hé to splash into the pond «pebble» 扑通一声落入水塘 he splashed into the pond to retrieve the ball 为了拿回球，他扑通一声跳下池塘 
③ (play in water) 戏水 xìshuǐ PHRASAL VERBS splash around, splash about A. intransitive verb 戏水 xìshuǐ 
B.  transitive verb[splash something around] 
① (spatter) 到处泼溅 dàochù pōjiàn ‹liquid, mud›
② (publicize) 大肆炒作 dàsì chǎozuò ‹news, scandal›the story was splashed around 那篇报道被大肆炒作 
③ colloquial (spend) 挥霍 huīhuò ‹money›splash down intransitive verb «spacecraft» 溅落 jiànluò splash out BrE colloquial: A. intransitive verb to splash out on [something]; 花大把的钱买某物 huā dà bǎ de qián mǎi mǒu wù 
B.  transitive verb[splash out something] 大把地花 dà bǎ de huā to splash out thousands of pounds on [something] 花几千英镑在某事物上 splash up intransitive verb «water, mud» 溅起来 jiàn qilai 
splash 
▶verb
1 splash your face with cool water: sprinkle, spray, shower, splatter, slosh, slop, squirt; daub; wet.
2 his boots were splashed with mud: spatter, bespatter, splatter, speck, speckle, blotch, smear, stain, mark; informal splotch.
3 waves splashed against the pier: swash, wash, break, lap; dash, beat, lash, batter, crash, buffet; literary plash.
4 children splashed in the water: paddle, wade, slosh; wallow; informal splosh; rare plash.
5 the story was splashed across the front pages: blazon, display, spread, plaster, trumpet, publicize; informal splatter.
▶noun
1 a splash of grease on his shirt: spot, blob, dab, daub, smudge, smear, speck, fleck; mark, stain; informal splotch.
2 a splash of soda water: drop, dash, bit, spot, soupçon, dribble, driblet.
3 a splash of color: patch, burst, streak.
PHRASES
make a splash informal he always believed he would make a splash in Washington: cause a sensation, cause a stir, attract attention, draw attention to oneself/itself, get noticed, make an impression, make an impact. REFLECTIONS Zadie Smithplash If it's good enough for Yeats, it's good enough for all of us. Familiar to basket-weavers as a synonym for plait, it has also this sweet secondary meaning of both 'a small puddle' and 'stepping into a small puddle.' Gentler than a splash, and much more appealing.Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
