split 
BrE splɪt, AmE splɪt 

A.  transitive verb(present participle -tt-; past tense, past participle split) 
① (cut) 切开 qiēkāi (crack) 劈开 pīkāi to split logs for kindling 劈一些圆木做引火柴 to split one's lip 把嘴唇划破 to split a seam 开线 to split [something] into pieces/in half or two 把某物切成几块/两半 to split [something] into X and Y Chemistry 把某物分解成X和Y to split the atom 使原子核裂变 lightning split the sky 闪电划破了天空 to split one's sides colloquial 笑破肚皮 
② (divide) 把…分开 bǎ… fēnkāi ‹text, work›to split [something] into two areas/groups/sections 把某物分成两个区/小组/部分 to split an infinitive 使用分裂不定式 
③ figurative (cause division in) 使…分裂 shǐ… fēnliè ‹group›to split an alliance into three camps 使联盟分裂成三个阵营 to be split on an issue «group» 在某个问题上存在分歧 to split the Conservative vote 分散保守党阵营的选票 to split the or one's ticket AmE Politics 投票给不同党派的候选人 to split enemy forces 分散敌人的兵力 
④ (share) 分担 fēndān to split [something] three ways 把…分成三份 ‹profit, cost›to split the rent between four people 在四个人之间分摊租金 shall we split a bottle of wine (between us)? 我们（俩）一起喝一瓶葡萄酒好吗？ to split the difference 折中 
⑤ Computing 分割 fēngē ‹window›
B.  intransitive verb(present participle -tt-; past tense, past participle split) 
① (crack, tear) «wood, seam, sack» 裂开 lièkāi the ship split in two 轮船断成两截 my head is splitting 我头痛欲裂 
② (divide) «cell, atom» 分裂 fēnliè ; «road, stream» 分岔 fēnchà to split into small groups 分成小组 
③ (disagree) «group, alliance» 分裂 fēnliè to split on or over (the question of) … 在…（问题）上存在分歧 to split along party lines «government» 在政党路线上有分歧 
④ (end relationship) 关系破裂 guānxì pòliè to split with/from [somebody]; 和某人分手/断绝关系 to split from the band 和乐队分道扬镳 
⑤ BrE colloquial (tell tales) to split on [somebody] (to [somebody]); （向某人）告发某人 (xiàng mǒu rén)gàofā mǒu rén 
⑥ colloquial (leave) 跑开 páokāi he split when he saw the cops 他一看到警察就开溜了 
C.  noun 
① (crack, tear) 裂缝 lièfèng a split in a seam 绽开的线缝 
② figurative (division) 分裂 fēnliè a two-way split 分裂成两派 
③ usually singular colloquial (share) 划分 huàfēn a split of the profits 利润的分配 to do a five-way split of [something] 把某物分成五份 
④ Culinary 水果船 shuǐguǒchuán a banana split 香蕉船 
⑤ especially AmE (half-size bottle) 小瓶饮料 xiǎo píng yǐnliào [容量为通常的1/2]
⑥ Sport (time) 分段计时 fēn duàn jìshí (point in race) 分段计时点 fēn duàn jìshí diǎn 
D.  splits noun plural the splits 劈叉 pǐchà to do the splits 劈叉 pǐchà 
E.  adjective 裂开的 lièkāi de a split log 劈开的圆木 split bamboo 剖开的竹片 to give [somebody] a split lip 把某人的嘴唇打裂 PHRASAL VERBS split off, split away 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (crack off) 断裂 duànliè (fall off) 断落 duànluò to split off from the trunk «branch» 从树干上断裂 
② figurative (diverge) 分离 fēnlí to split off from the main group 脱离大部队 to split off and found one's own political party 分裂出去成立自己的政党 
B.  transitive verb[split something off, split off something] 
① (detach) 使…断裂 shǐ… duànliè ‹branch›to split a piece off (from) [something] 从某物上切下一块 
② (separate) 使…分离 shǐ… fēnlí ‹group›to split [something] off from the rest of the organization 把…从机构的其他部门独立出来 split open 
A.  intransitive verb 裂开 lièkāi the bag split open, and all my shopping fell out 袋子破了，我买的东西都掉了出来 
B.  transitive verb[split something open, split open something] 使裂开 shǐ lièkāi to split [something] open with an axe 用斧子把某物劈开 his cheek was split right open 他的脸颊被划了一道口子 split up 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (disperse) «crowd» 散开 sànkāi we stayed together as far as London, where we split up to return to our separate homes 我们一起到了伦敦，然后分手各自回家 
② (divide) «company, group, alliance» 分开 fēnkāi to split up into [something]; 分成某物 the children split up into smaller groups for art 孩子们学习美术时分成了人数更少的小组 
③ (end relationship) «couple, friends» 分手 fēnshǒu ; «group, band» 解散 jiěsàn to split up with [somebody]; 和某人分手 
B.  transitive verb[split something up, split up something] 使分开 shǐ fēnkāi you can split the work up any way you want to, so long as it gets done 只要活儿能够做完，你们之间怎么分工都行 they split the household effects up between them 他们把家产分了 to split [something] up into [something]; 把某物分成某物 
split 
▶verb
1 the ax split the wood: break, chop, cut, hew, lop, cleave; snap, crack.
2 the ice cracked and split: break apart, fracture, rupture, fissure, snap, come apart, splinter.
3 her dress was split: tear, rip, slash, slit; literary rend.
4 the issue could split the party: divide, disunite, separate, sever; bisect, partition; literary tear asunder. ANTONYMS unite, unify.
5 they split the money between them: share (out), divide (up), apportion, allocate, allot, distribute, dole out, parcel out, measure out; carve up, slice up; informal divvy up.
6 the path split: fork, divide, bifurcate, diverge, branch. ANTONYMS converge, merge.
7 they split up last year: break up, separate, part, part company, become estranged; divorce, get divorced. ANTONYMS get together, marry.
8 informal let's split. See leave1 (sense 1). 
▶noun
1 a split in the rock face: crack, fissure, cleft, crevice, break, fracture, breach.
2 a split in the curtain: rip, tear, cut, rent, slash, slit.
3 a split in the governing party: division, rift, breach, schism, rupture, partition, separation, severance, scission, breakup.
4 the acrimonious split with his wife: breakup, split-up, separation, parting, estrangement, rift; divorce.
PHRASES
split hairs while you're splitting hairs over who's the better parent, no one is watching the kids: quibble, cavil, carp, niggle, chop logic; informal nitpick; archaic pettifog. 
WORD LINKS
split fissile easily splitWord Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.
