spoil 
BrE spɔɪl, AmE spɔɪl 

A.  transitive verb(past tense, past participle spoiled, BrE spoilt) 
① (ruin, damage) 毁掉 huǐdiào to spoil one's chances of getting/doing [something] 断送自己获得某事物/做某事的机会 spoilt ballots 废选票 to spoil one's appetite 败坏食欲 to spoil [somebody's] (little) game colloquial 拆穿某人的（小）把戏 too many cooks spoil the broth proverb 人多添乱 
② (mar) 败坏 bàihuài ‹event, evening›to spoil the fun/[somebody's] fun 扫兴/扫某人的兴 to spoil the view 破坏景致 a holiday spoilt by rain 让雨搅了的假期 to spoil [something] for [somebody]; 破坏某人对某事物的兴致 the bad news spoilt the day for me 坏消息把我这一天都给毁了 to spoil everything 把整个事情搞砸 to be spoilt for choice BrE 因选择太多而拿不定主意 
③ (overindulge) 宠坏 chǒnghuài ‹child›to spoil [somebody] rotten colloquial 宠坏某人 to be spoiled by [somebody] 被某人惯坏 
④ (pamper) 娇惯 jiāoguàn to spoil [somebody] with presents 用礼物善待某人 I'm very spoiled living by the sea 住在海边，我很享受 
B.  reflexive verb (past tense, past participle spoiled, BrE spoilt) to spoil oneself; 善待自己 shàndài zìjǐ let's spoil ourselves and eat out 我们享受享受，出去吃顿饭吧 
C.  intransitive verb (past tense, past participle spoiled, BrE spoilt) «food, dinner» 变质 biànzhì 
D.  noun Uncountable(waste) 弃土 qìtǔ 
E.  spoils noun plural 
① (booty) 赃物 zāngwù to get a share of the spoils 分得一份赃物 the spoils of war 战利品 
② figurative (reward, prize) 奖品 jiǎngpǐn to carry off the spoils Sport 夺得奖项 PHRASAL VERB spoil for: transitive verb to be spoiling for a fight 一心想打架 figurative (for argument) 一心想争吵 yīxīn xiǎng zhēngchǎo to be spoiling for trouble 存心想找麻烦 
spoil 
spoil

▶verb (past and past participle spoiled or chiefly British spoilt 
spoilt
) [with object]
1 diminish or destroy the value or quality of: I wouldn't want to spoil your fun 
a series of political blunders spoiled their chances of being re-elected. 
• prevent someone from enjoying (an occasion or event): she was afraid of spoiling Christmas for the rest of the family. 
• [no object] (of food) become unfit for eating: I've got some ham that'll spoil if we don't eat it tonight.
2 harm the character of (a child) by being too lenient or indulgent: the last thing I want to do is spoil Thomas 
(as adjective spoiled) : a spoiled child. 
• treat with great or excessive kindness, consideration, or generosity: breakfast in bed—you're spoiling me!
3 [no object] (be spoiling for) be extremely or aggressively eager for: Cooper was spoiling for a fight.
4 archaic rob (a person or a place) of goods or possessions by force or violence. 
▶noun
1 (usually spoils) goods stolen or taken forcibly from a person or place: the looters carried their spoils away.
2 waste material brought up during the course of an excavation or a dredging or mining operation. ORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘to plunder’): shortening of Old French espoille (noun), espoillier (verb), from Latin spoliare, from spolium ‘plunder, skin stripped from an animal,’ or a shortening of despoil .
