sponsor 
BrE ˈspɒnsə, AmE ˈspɑnsər 

A.  noun 
① (advertiser, backer) 赞助者 zànzhùzhě 
② (for charity) 捐助人 juānzhùrén 
③ Politics (of bill, motion) 倡议者 chàngyìzhě 
④ (guarantor) 保人 bǎorén to act as sponsor for [somebody] 为某人担保 to be [somebody's] sponsor 做某人的担保人 
⑤ Religion (godfather) 教父 jiàofù (godmother) 教母 jiàomǔ 
B.  transitive verb 
① (fund) 资助 zīzhù ‹programme, event›a sponsored walk/swim 步行募捐/游泳筹款义赛 
② (support) 支持 zhīchí UN-sponsored 联合国支持的 
③ Politics (advocate) 倡议 chàngyì ‹bill, motion›
④ (act as guarantor for) 做…的保证人 zuò… de bǎozhèngrén ‹apprentice›
⑤ (be godfather to) 做…的教父 zuò… de jiàofù ; (be godmother to) 做…的教母 zuò… de jiàomǔ 
sponsor 
ˈspänsər

▶noun
1 a person or organization that provides funds for a project or activity carried out by another, in particular: 
• an individual or organization that pays some or all of the costs involved in staging a sporting or artistic event in return for advertising. 
• a person who pledges to donate a certain amount of money to another person after they have participated in a fund-raising event organized on behalf of a charity. 
• chiefly US a business or organization that pays for or contributes to the costs of a radio or television program in return for advertising.
2 a person who introduces and supports a proposal for legislation: a leading sponsor of the bill. 
• a person taking official responsibility for the actions of another: they act as informants, sponsors, and contacts for new immigrants. 
• a godparent at a child's baptism. 
• (especially in the Roman Catholic Church) a person presenting a candidate for confirmation. 
▶verb [with object]
1 provide funds for (a project or activity or the person carrying it out): Joe is being sponsored by his church. 
• pay some or all of the costs involved in staging (a sporting or artistic event) in return for advertising. 
• pledge to donate a certain sum of money to (someone) after they have participated in a fund-raising event organized on behalf of a charity. 
• (often as adjective sponsored) pledge to donate money because someone is taking part in (such an event): they raised $70 by a sponsored walk.
2 introduce and support (a proposal) in a legislative assembly: Senator Hardin sponsored the bill. 
• propose and organize (negotiations or talks) between other people or groups: the 
U. 
S.  sponsored negotiations between the two sides. ORIGIN mid 17th century (as a noun): from Latin, from spondere ‘promise solemnly.’ The verb dates from the late 19th century.
