spot 
BrE spɒt, AmE spɑt 

A.  noun 
① (dot on fabric, dice, domino) 点 diǎn (on animal, insect) 斑点 bāndiǎn a red dress with white spots 红底白点的连衣裙 to change one's spots figurative 改变本性 
② (stain) 污渍 wūzì a grease/rust/blood spot 油渍/锈斑/血迹 spots of mud 泥点 to knock spots off [somebody]/[something] BrE colloquial 远远胜过某人/某事物 
③ (pimple) 丘疹 qiūzhěn (bump on fruit, leaves) 疤点 bādiǎn to have a spot on one's nose 鼻子上长了个粉刺 to have spots (acne) 长青春痘 to come or break out in spots (rash) 身上长皮疹 
④ (drop) 滴 dī a few spots of rain 几滴雨 
⑤ BrE (small amount) 一点 yīdiǎn care for a spot of lunch? 想吃点午饭吗？ to have a spot of bother with [something] 某事出了点麻烦 
⑥ (place) 地点 dìdiǎn (in or on body) 部位 bùwèi a good picnic spot 野餐的好去处 a bald spot 秃斑 [somebody's] tender or vulnerable spot 某人的痛处 to rush to/be on the spot (scene) 火速赶到/在现场 to do [something] on the spot 当场做某事 the (only) bright spot figurative （唯一的）亮点 to hit the spot colloquial «drink, meal» 正合所需 to hit the high spots colloquial 游览精华景点 
⑦ colloquial (difficulty) to be in tight or difficult spot 身处困境 shēn chǔ kùnjìng to be on the spot 处于困境 chǔyú kùnjìng to put [somebody] on the spot 使某人为难 shǐ mǒu rén wéinán 
⑧ Television, Radio (slot) 节目档 jiémùdàng (for commercial) 广告位 guǎnggàowèi to have a regular five-minute spot on the radio 在广播中有一档5分钟的固定栏目 
⑨ colloquial (ranking) 排名位置 páimíng wèizhi to have or be in the top or number-one spot 排名第一 
⑩ figurative (blemish) 污点 wūdiǎn a spot on [somebody's] reputation 某人名誉上的污点 his record is without spot or stain 他的履历清清白白 
⑪ Theatre, Cinema = spotlight 
A.  
⑫ (in football) the spot 罚球点 fáqiúdiǎn 
B.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -tt) 
① (see) 看见 kànjian she was spotted at a hotel 有人看见她在一家旅馆 to spot that something is wrong 发现有问题 
② (identify) 认出 rènchū to spot [somebody] by his beard 通过胡子认出某人 to spot the difference between two pictures 找出两张画的不同之处 
③ (dot) 使有斑点 shǐ yǒu bāndiǎn she spotted the blue with yellow 她在蓝底上打上了黄点 trees spotted the land 地里稀稀拉拉地长着几棵树 
④ usually passive (stain) 使有污渍 shǐ yǒu wūzì to be spotted with grease/mud 满是油渍/泥点 
⑤ AmE colloquial (lend) 借给 jiègěi I'll spot you $500 我会借给你500美元 
C.  intransitive verb(present participle etc. -tt-) 
① (become stained) 沾上污渍 zhānshang wūzì the cloth has spotted rather badly 这块布上沾了很多污渍 
② Military [尤指从空中] 探察敌军位置 tànchá díjūn wèizhi to spot for the artillery 为炮兵探明敌军位置 
D.  impersonal verb (present participle etc. -tt-) it's spotting (with rain) 在下着零星小雨 zài xiàzhe língxīng xiǎoyǔ 
spot 
spät

▶noun
1 a small round or roundish mark, differing in color or texture from the surface around it: ladybugs have black spots on their red wing covers. 
• a small mark or stain: a spot of mildew on the wall. 
• chiefly British a pimple. 
• archaic a moral blemish or stain. 
• chiefly North American a pip on a domino, playing card, or die. 
• [in combination] informal, chiefly North American a banknote of a specified value: a ten-spot.
2 a particular place or point: a nice secluded spot 
an ideal picnic spot. 
• [with adjective] a small feature or part of something with a particular quality: his bald spot 
there was one bright spot in a night of dismal failure. 
• a position within a listing; a ranking: the runner-up spot. 
• (in sports) an advantage allowed to a player as a handicap. 
• a place for an individual item within a show: she couldn't do her usual singing spot in the club.
3 informal, chiefly British a small amount of something: a spot of rain.
4 [as modifier] denoting a system of trading in which commodities or currencies are delivered and paid for immediately after a sale: trading in the spot markets 
the current spot price.
5 short for spotlight. 
▶verb (spots, spotting, spotted)
1 [with object] see, notice, or recognize (someone or something) that is difficult to detect or that one is searching for: Andrew spotted the ad in the paper 
the men were spotted by police. 
• (usually be spotted) recognize that (someone) has a particular talent, especially for sports or show business: we were spotted by a talent scout. 
• [no object] Military locate an enemy's position, typically from the air: they were spotting for enemy aircraft.
2 [with object] (usually be spotted) mark with spots: the velvet was spotted with stains. 
• [no object] become marked with spots: a damp atmosphere causes the flowers to spot. 
• cover (a surface or area) thinly: thorn trees spotted the land. 
• archaic stain or sully the moral character or qualities of.
3 [with object] place (a billiard ball or football) on its designated starting point.
4 [with two objects] North American informal give or lend (money) to (someone): I'll spot you $300. 
• allow (an advantage) to (someone) in a game or sport: the higher-rated team spots the lower-rated team the difference in their handicaps.
5 [with object] observe or assist (a gymnast) during a performance in order to minimize the chance of injury to the gymnast. 
PHRASES
hit the spot informal be exactly what is required: the cup of coffee hit the spot. in a spot informal in a difficult situation. on the spot
1 without any delay; immediately: he offered me the job on the spot.
2 at the scene of an action or event: journalists on the spot reported no progress. put someone on the spot informal force someone into a situation in which they must make a difficult decision or answer a difficult question.ORIGIN Middle English: perhaps from Middle Dutch spotte. The sense ‘notice, recognize’ arose from the early 19th-century slang use ‘note as a suspect or criminal.’
