spring 
BrE sprɪŋ, AmE sprɪŋ 
A. noun 
① Uncountable and countable(season) 春天 chūntiān in (the) spring 在春天 in the spring of 2006 在2006年春季 spring is in the air 已经有春天的气息了 a bright spring day 明媚的春日 
② Countable(leap) 跳跃 tiàoyuè with a spring he was up on the wall 他纵身跃上了墙头 
③ Countable(coil) (in chair, vehicle) 弹簧 tánhuáng (in watch, clock) 发条 fātiáo to be like a coiled spring (ready to take off, tense) 像绷紧的弹簧 
④ Uncountable and countableusually singular (bounce) 弹性 tánxìng to have a spring in one's step 脚步轻快 
⑤ Countable(water source) 泉 quán 
B.  intransitive verb(past tense sprang or especially AmE sprung; past participle sprung) 
① (leap) 跳跃 tiàoyuè to spring over or across [something] 跳过某物 to spring to one's feet/out of bed 一跃而起/跳下床来 to spring lightly up the steps 轻快地拾级而上 the dog sprang at me 狗向我扑来 
② (move quickly) 飞快行动 fēikuài xíngdòng to spring into action «team» 迅速行动起来 to spring to or into life «person» 突然活跃起来 «engine, machine» 一下运转起来 yīxià yùnzhuǎn qilai «place» 突然热闹起来 tūrán rènao qilai to spring to attention 迅速立正 to spring to [somebody's] defence/rescue 立即为某人辩护/救助某人 to spring to one's lips «name» 脱口而出 to spring to mind 突然在脑海中闪现 to spring into focus 一下子成为焦点 tears sprang to her eyes 她的眼泪夺眶而出 where did you spring from? 你是从哪儿冒出来的？ 
③ (be released quickly) 突然弹开 tūrán tánkāi the lid sprang open/shut 盖子啪地打开/关上了 
④ (make known suddenly) to spring [something] on [somebody]; 突然向某人提出 ‹idea, plan› 突然把…交给某人 tūrán bǎ… jiāo gěi mǒu rén ‹task, problem›to spring bad news on [somebody] 突然把坏消息告诉某人 I hate to spring this on you, but … 我不想让你没有心理准备就知道这件事，但是… 
C.  transitive verb(past tense sprang or especially AmE sprung; past participle sprung) 
① (set off) 触发 chùfā ‹trap, mechanism›to spring a mine 使地雷爆炸 to spring a surprise (on [somebody]) 做出（使某人感到）突然的举动 
② colloquial (liberate) 帮助…越狱 bāngzhù… yuèyù ‹prisoner›to spring the hostages 营救人质 
③ (warp) 使…翘曲 shǐ… qiàoqū ‹board›; (split) 使…开裂 shǐ… kāiliè ‹board›to spring a leak «container, boat» 出现裂缝 
④ Hunting «dog, beater» 使…受惊跳出来 shǐ… shòujīng tiào chulai ‹game›PHRASAL VERBS spring back intransitive verb 
① (leap back) «person» 向后跳 xiàn ghòu tiào 
② (return with elastic force) «branch» 弹回 tánhuí to spring back into position «part» 弹回原位 spring for transitive verb[spring for something] AmE colloquial 付钱买 fù qián mǎi I'll spring for dinner tonight 今天晚饭我来付钱 spring from transitive verb[spring from something] (originate from) 起源于 qǐyuán yú the dispute sprang from a misunderstanding 这一争端是由误解引起的 his problems spring from overconfidence 他的问题是过度自信造成的 spring up intransitive verb 
① (get up) 跃起 yuèqǐ 
② (appear) 涌现 yǒngxiàn new industrial estates are springing up everywhere 到处都在兴建新工业区 a gale sprang up during the night 夜里突然刮起了大风 a group of onlookers sprang up from nowhere 一群旁观者不知从哪里冒了出来 
spring 
▶verb
1 the cat sprang off her lap: leap, jump, bound, vault, hop.
2 the branch sprang back: fly, whip, flick, whisk, kick, bounce.
3 all art springs from feelings: originate, derive, arise, stem, emanate, proceed, issue, evolve, come.
4 fifty men sprang from nowhere: appear suddenly, appear unexpectedly, materialize, pop up, shoot up, sprout, develop quickly; proliferate, mushroom.
5 he sprang the truth on me: announce suddenly/unexpectedly, reveal suddenly/unexpectedly, surprise someone with.
▶noun
1 with a sudden spring he leapt on to the table: leap, jump, bound, vault, hop; pounce.
2 the mattress has lost its spring: springiness, bounciness, bounce, resilience, elasticity, flexibility, stretch, stretchiness, give.
3 there was a spring in his step: buoyancy, bounce, energy, liveliness, jauntiness, sprightliness, confidence.
4 a mineral spring: source, geyser; literary wellspring, fount; Japanese onsen.
5 the spring from which all her emotions poured: origin, source, fountainhead, root, roots, basis; informal ground zero.
WORD LINKS
spring vernal relating to the season of springWord Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.
