spur 
BrE spəː, AmE spər 

A.  noun 
① usually plural Riding 踢马刺 tīmǎcì to dig or drive in one's spurs 用踢马刺策马 to win one's spurs figurative 获得声誉 
② usually singular figurative (incentive) 激励 jīlì a spur to greater achievements 争取更大成就的动力 on the spur of the moment 一时冲动之下 a spur-of-the-moment decision 一时冲动的决定 
③ Zoology (on bird's wing, cock's leg) 距 jù 
④ = spur road 
⑤ = spur track 
⑥ Geology 支脉 zhīmài 
B.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -rr-) 
① Riding 用踢马刺策…前进 yòng tīmǎcì cè… qiánjìn ‹horse›to spur one's horse into a trot 用踢马刺策马小跑 
② figurative (urge) 激励 jīlì ‹person, group›; 促进 cùjìn ‹growth›to cut interest rates to spur demand 降低利率以刺激需求 to spur [somebody] into action 激励某人采取行动 spurred by the response, she … 在这种反应的激励下，她… 
C.  intransitive verb (present participle etc. -rr-) literary 策马飞奔 cèmǎ fēibēn to spur onward 策马向前飞奔 PHRASAL VERB spur on transitive verb[spur something/somebody on, spur on something/somebody] 
① literal 用踢马刺策…前进 yòng tīmǎcì cè… qiánjìn ‹horse›
② figurative (urge) 激励 jīlì to spur [somebody] on to try again/to greater efforts 鞭策某人再次尝试/作出更大的努力 spurred on by ambition 受野心的驱策 
spur 
spər

▶noun
1 a device with a small spike or a spiked wheel that is worn on a rider's heel and used for urging a horse forward.spur
1 
• a hard spike on the back of the leg of a cock or male game bird, used in fighting. 
• a steel point fastened to the leg of a gamecock.
2 a thing that prompts or encourages someone; an incentive: profit was both the spur and the reward of enterprise.
3 a thing that projects or branches off from a main body, in particular: 
• a projection from a mountain or mountain range. 
• a short branch road or rail line. 
• Botany a slender tubular projection from the base of a flower, e.g., a honeysuckle or orchid, typically containing nectar. 
• a short fruit-bearing side shoot. 
• Medicine a short pointed growth or process on a part of the body. 
▶verb (spurs, spurring, spurred) [with object] urge (a horse) forward by digging one's spurs into its sides: she spurred her horse toward the hedge. 
• give an incentive or encouragement to (someone): her sons' passion for computer games spurred her on to set up a software store. 
• cause or promote the development of; stimulate: governments cut interest rates to spur demand. 
PHRASES
on the spur of the moment on impulse; without planning in advance: I don't generally do things on the spur of the moment 
[as adjective] : a spur-of-the-moment decision.DERIVATIVES spurless adjectiveORIGIN Old English spora, spura, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch spoor and German Sporn, also to spurn .
