square 
BrE skwɛː, AmE skwɛr 

A.  noun 
① (shape) 正方形 zhèngfāngxíng the squares on a chess board 国际象棋棋盘上的方格 a silk square 方丝巾 to cut [something] into squares 把某物切成方块 to be or go back to square one 从头再来 on the square 成直角的 chéng zhíjiǎo de figurative (honest) 正直的 zhèngzhí de (proper) 正当的 zhèngdàng de to cut [something] on the square 方方正正地切某物 out of square 不成直角的 the frame is out of square 画框不正 
② (plaza) 广场 guǎngchǎng Military 操练场 cāoliànchǎng the town square 市中心广场 
③ AmE (block) 街区 jiēqū 
④ Mathematics (product) 平方 píngfāng
9 is the square of
3 9是3的平方 
⑤ Mathematics, Technology (tool) 直角尺 zhíjiǎochǐ 
⑥ colloquial (conventional person) 老古板 lǎogǔbǎn 
B.  adjective 
① (in shape) 正方形的 zhèngfāngxíng de ‹object›to cut [something] square 把某物切成方形 a man of square build 壮实的男人 to have square shoulders 肩膀宽阔结实 to be a square peg (in a round hole) 格格不入 
② (right-angled) 成直角的 chéng zhíjiǎo de a square corner 方角 to be square to or with [something]; 与某物成直角 to be square to the bottom edge (vertical) 与底边垂直 
③ attributive (in measurements) 平方的 píngfāng de four square metres (in area) 4平方米 a rug two foot or feet square (across) 一块2英尺见方的地毯 the Square Mile BrE colloquial 伦敦城 
④ predicative figurative (balanced, settled) 扯平的 chěpíng de to be (all) square «books» （全部）结清 to get the accounts square 把账目结清 I'll give you £5, and we'll be square 我给你5英镑，那么我们就两清了 the teams are (all) square 两队打成平局 
⑤ figurative (honest) 诚实的 chéngshí de (fair) 公平的 gōngpíng de to be square with [somebody] 对某人以诚相待 to give [somebody] a square deal 公正地对待某人 
⑥ predicative (in order) 整齐的 zhěngqí de (aligned) 对齐的 duìqí de to be square with the frame «photo» 与相框对齐 
⑦ usually predicative colloquial (conventional) 古板的 gǔbǎn de 
⑧ Sport 横向的 héngxiàng de ‹kick›a square pass 一记横传 
C.  adverb 
① (directly) 正对着 zhèng duìzhe to look [somebody] square in the eye 直视某人的眼睛 to hit [somebody] square on the jaw 对准某人的下颌打 
② Sport 横向地 héngxiàng de to kick the ball square 横向踢球 
D.  transitive verb 
① (make square) 使…成正方形 shǐ… chéng zhèngfāngxíng ‹object›to square one's shoulders figurative 挺起胸膛 
② (make right-angled) 使成直角 shǐ chéng zhíjiǎo to square both edges 使两条边垂直 
③ (mark off squares on) 把…分成方格 bǎ… fēnchéng fānggé a sheet of squared paper 一张方格纸 
④ (settle) 结清 jiéqīng ‹account, debt›; 与…结清账目 yǔ… jiéqīng zhàngmù ‹creditor›to square one's account(s) with [somebody] 和某人结账 figurative 跟某人算账 gēn mǒu rén suànzhàng 
⑤ Sport 使打平 shǐ dǎpíng his goal squared the match 2-2 他进了一球，使比分打成了2比2平 
⑥ Mathematics 使…成平方 shǐ… chéng píngfāng ‹number›6 squared is 36 6的平方是36 
⑦ to square [something] with [somebody] (get agreement for) 征得某人对…的同意 zhēngdé mǒu rén duì… de tóngyì ‹proposal, decision›please square your budget with the finance department 你的预算请提交财务部门审批 
⑧ to square [something] with [something] (reconcile) 使某物与某物一致 shǐ mǒu wù yǔ mǒu wù yīzhì to square [something] with one's conscience 对某事问心无愧 duì mǒu shì wèn xīn wú kuì 
⑨ colloquial (secure agreement) 说服 shuōfú (bribe) 收买 shōumǎi they must have squared the mayor before they won the contract 他们一定是买通了市长才赢得了合同 
E.  reflexive verb to square oneself (to face [something]) 挺起胸膛（面对某事物） tǐngqǐ xiōngtáng(miànduì mǒu shìwù) PHRASAL VERBS square off 
A.  transitive verb[square something off, square off something] 
① (make square) 把…做成方形 bǎ… zuòchéng fāngxíng the posts should be squared off 柱子应该加工成方形 
② (mark into squares) 把…分成方格 bǎ… fēnchéng fānggé ‹paper›
B.  intransitive verb especially AmE = square up 
B.  square up 
A.  transitive verb[square something up, square up something] 
① (make square) 使成方形 shǐ chéng fāngxíng to use a T-square to square up the fabric 用丁字尺把布裁成方形 
② (align) 把…弄整齐 bǎ… nòng zhěngqí to square up the papers on one's desk 把桌上的文件收拾整齐 
③ (settle) 结清 jiéqīng ‹account, debt›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (prepare to fight) 摆好架势 bǎihǎo jiàshi to square up for [something]; 摆好架势准备进行 ‹fight, match›to square up to [somebody]/[something]; 勇敢面对 ‹person, reality›
② (settle accounts) 结清账目 jiéqīng zhàngmù to square up with [somebody]; 与某人结清账 square with: transitive verb 
① to square with [something] (be consistent with) 和某事物一致 hé mǒu shìwù yīzhì that doesn't square with what you said yesterday 那和你昨天所讲的不吻合 
② to square with [somebody] (come to agreement) 征得某人的同意 zhēngdé mǒu rén de tóngyì 
square 
skwer

▶noun
1 a plane figure with four equal straight sides and four right angles. 
• a thing having the shape of four equal straight sides and four right angles: she tore a bit of cloth into a four-inch square. 
• a thing having the shape or approximate shape of a cube: a small square of chocolate. 
• an open (typically four-sided) area surrounded by buildings in a town, village, or city: a market square 
[in place names] : Herald Square. 
• an open area at the meeting of streets. 
• a small square area on the board used in a game. 
• US a block of buildings bounded by four streets. 
• historical a body of infantry drawn up in rectangular form. 
• a unit of 100 square ft. used as a measure of flooring, roofing, etc.
2 the product of a number multiplied by itself: a circle's area is proportional to the square of its radius.
3 an L-shaped or T-shaped instrument used for obtaining or testing right angles: a carpenter's square. 
• Astrology an aspect of 90° (one quarter of a circle): Venus in square to Jupiter.
4 informal a person considered to be old-fashioned or boringly conventional in attitude or behavior. 
• North American a cigarette containing tobacco rather than cannabis.
5 North American informal a square meal: three squares a day. 
▶adjective
1 having the shape or approximate shape of a square: a square table. 
• having the shape or approximate shape of a cube: a square box. 
• having or in the form of two right angles: a suitable length of wood with square ends. 
• having an outline resembling two corners of a square: his square jaw. 
• broad and solid in shape: he was short and square.
2 denoting a unit of measurement equal to the area of a square whose side is of the unit specified: 30,000 square feet of new gallery space. 
• [postpositive] denoting the length of each side of a square shape or object: the office was fifteen feet square.
3 at right angles; perpendicular: these lines must be square to the top and bottom marked edges. 
• Astrology having or denoting an aspect of 90°: Jupiter is square to the Sun.
4 level or parallel: place one piece of wood on top of the other, ensuring that they are exactly square. 
• properly arranged; in good order: we should get everything square before we leave. 
• compatible or in agreement: he wanted to make sure we were square with the court's decision and not subject to a lawsuit. 
• fair and honest: she'd been as square with him as anybody could be.
5 (of two people) owing nothing to each other: an acknowledgment that we are square. 
• with both players or sides having equal scores in a game: the goal brought the match all square once again.
6 informal old-fashioned or boringly conventional: Elvis was anything but square.
7 (of rhythm) simple and straightforward. 
▶adverb directly; straight: it hit me square in the forehead. 
• informal fairly; honestly: I'd acted square and on the level with him. 
▶verb [with object]
1 make square or rectangular; give a square or rectangular cross section to: you can square off the other edge. 
• (usually as adjective squared) mark out in squares.
2 multiply (a number) by itself:
5 squared equals 25. 
• [usually as postpositive adjective] (squared) convert (a linear unit of measurement) to a unit of area equal to a square whose side is of the unit specified: there were only three people per kilometer squared.
3 make compatible; reconcile: I'm able to square my profession with my religious beliefs. 
• [no object] be compatible: do those announcements really square with the facts?
4 balance (an account): they're anxious to square their books before the audit. 
• make the score of (a match or game) even: [with object and complement] : his goal squared the match 1-1. 
• informal secure the help, acquiescence, or silence of (someone), especially by offering an inducement: trying to square the press.
5 bring (one's shoulders) into a position in which they appear square and broad, typically to prepare oneself for a difficult task or event: chin up, shoulders squared, she stepped into the room. 
• (square oneself) adopt a posture of defense.
6 Sailing set (a yard or other part of a ship) approximately at right angles to the keel or other point of reference.
7 Astrology (of a planet) have a square aspect with (another planet or position): Saturn squares the Sun on the 17th. 
PHRASES
back to (or at) square one informal back to where one started, with no progress having been made. on the square
1 informal honest; straightforward.
2 informal honestly; fairly.
3 at right angles. out of square not at right angles. square accounts with see account. square the circle construct a square equal in area to a given circle (a problem incapable of a purely geometric solution). 
• do something that is considered to be impossible. a square peg in a round hole see peg. PHRASAL VERBS square something away North American arrange or deal with something in a satisfactory way: don't you worry, we'll get things squared away. square off assume the attitude of a person about to fight: the two men squared off 
figurative : a debate gives the candidates an opportunity to square off. square up settle or pay an account: would you square up the bill? 
• settle a dispute or misunderstanding: I want to square up whatever's wrong between us.DERIVATIVES squareness 
ˈskwernəs 
noun. squarer 
ˈskwerər 
noun. squarish adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: shortening of Old French esquare (noun), esquarre (past participle, used as an adjective), esquarrer (verb), based on Latin quadra ‘square.’
