squat 
BrE skwɒt, AmE skwɑt 

A.  adjective 矮胖的 ǎipàng de ‹person, shape›; 低矮的 dī'ǎi de ‹building›
B.  intransitive verb(present participle etc. -tt-) 
① (crouch) 蹲坐 dūnzuò to squat down 蹲下 they were squatting around the fire 他们蹲在火炉周围 
② colloquial (sit) 坐 zuò 
③ colloquial (occupy building) 偷住空屋 tōu zhù kōngwū (occupy land) 擅自占用土地 shànzì zhànyòng tǔdì to squat in an empty house 偷住空房 
C.  noun 
① (position) 蹲坐 dūnzuò 
② colloquial (building) 偷住的空屋 tōu zhù de kōngwū 
squat 
skwät

▶verb (squats, squatting, squatted)
1 [no object] crouch or sit with one's knees bent and one's heels close to or touching one's buttocks or the back of one's thighs: I squatted down in front of him. 
• [with object] Weightlifting crouch down in a squat and rise again while holding (a specified weight) at one's shoulders: he can squat 850 pounds.
2 [no object] unlawfully occupy an uninhabited building or settle on a piece of land: eight families are squatting in the house. 
• [with object] occupy (an uninhabited building) unlawfully. 
▶adjective (squatter, squattest) short and thickset; disproportionately broad or wide: he was muscular and squat 
a squat gray house. 
▶noun
1 [in singular] a position in which one's knees are bent and one's heels are close to or touching one's buttocks or the back of one's thighs. 
• Weightlifting an exercise in which a person squats down and rises again while holding a barbell at shoulder level. 
• (in gymnastics) an exercise involving a squatting movement or action.
2 North American informal short for diddly-squat: I didn't know squat about writing plays.
3 chiefly British a building occupied by people living in it without the legal right to do so. 
• an unlawful occupation of an uninhabited building. DERIVATIVES squatly adverb. squatness nounORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘thrust down with force’): from Old French esquatir ‘flatten,’ based on Latin coactus, past participle of cogere ‘compel’ (see cogent). The current sense of the adjective dates from the mid 17th century.
