stack 
BrE stak, AmE stæk 

A.  noun 
① (pile) 一叠 yī dié a stack of plates 一摞盘子 to put the chairs together into a stack 把椅子叠放在一起 
② Agriculture 垛 duò a stack of straw 稻草垛 
③ (chimney) 烟囱 yāncōng ; (exhaust pipe) 排气管 páiqìguǎn to blow one's stack colloquial 发脾气 
④ (shelves) (book) stack 书架 shūjià 
⑤ Aviation 分层盘旋的待降机群 fēncéng pánxuán de dài jiàng jīqún to hold aircraft in a stack 让飞机分层盘旋等待着陆 
⑥ BrE Geology 岩柱 yánzhù 
⑦ Computing （存贮）栈 (cúnzhù)zhàn 
⑧ Audio equipment 组合音响 zǔhé yīnxiǎng 
⑨ colloquial (a lot) 大量 dàliàng she's got a stack of clothes 她有许多衣服 there has been a whole stack of complaints 有一大堆投诉 
B.  stacks noun plural 
① colloquial (lots) 大量 dàliàng I've got stacks of time/things to do 我有的是时间/有一大堆事情要做 to have stacks of money 有大把大把的钱 
② (in library) the stacks 书库 shūkù open/closed stacks 开架/闭架书库 kāijià/bìjià shūkù 
C.  transitive verb 
① (pile) 把…叠起来 bǎ… dié qilai ‹books, chairs›; 把…堆成垛 bǎ… duīchéng duò ‹hay›to stack [something] into neat piles 把…整齐地码放成堆 ‹bricks, boxes›
② (fill) 在…上堆放 zài… shang duīfàng to stack the shelves (in shop) 摆货物上架 a lorry stacked with boxes of [something] 码放着一箱箱某物的卡车 to be (well) stacked colloquial «woman» 胸部丰满 
③ Games colloquial 对…作弊 duì… zuòbì to stack the cards BrE or deck AmE (against [somebody]) （对某人）洗牌作弊 the cards or odds are stacked in favour of/against [somebody] figurative 情况对某人有利/不利 
④ pejorative colloquial (fill with supporters) 在…中安插支持者 zài… zhōng ānchā zhīchízhě ‹jury›the committee was stacked 委员会被人暗中控制了 
⑤ Aviation 使…分层盘旋待降 shǐ… fēn céng pánxuán dài jiàng ‹aircraft›
⑥ Telecommunications 使…排队等候 shǐ… páiduì děnghòu ‹incoming calls›
D.  intransitive verb 
① (able to be piled) 可叠放 kě dié fàng stacking chairs 可叠放的椅子 (not) easily/well stacked （不）容易码放/码放得（不）好的 
② Aviation «aircraft» 分层盘旋待降 fēncéng pánxuán dài jiàng PHRASAL VERB stack up 
A.  transitive verb[stack something up, stack up something] 
① (put in pile) 把…叠放起来 bǎ… diéfàng qilai ‹books, plates›to stack up the boxes 把箱子摞起来 
② (cause to build up) 使积聚成一堆 shǐ jījù chéng yī duī 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (build up) «work, bills» 积聚成一堆 jījù chéng yī duī 
② colloquial (compare) 相比 xiāngbǐ how does this brand stack up? 这个品牌怎么样？ to stack up well against [somebody]/[something] 比得上某人/某事物 
③ colloquial (make sense) «account» 讲得通 jiǎng de tōng it doesn't stack up 这不合情理 
④ Aviation «aircraft» 分层盘旋待降 fēncéng pánxuán dài jiàng 
stack 
stak

▶noun
1 a pile of objects, typically one that is neatly arranged: a stack of boxes. 
• (a stack of/stacks of) informal a large quantity of something: there's stacks of work for me now. 
• a rectangular or cylindrical pile of hay or straw or of grain in sheaf. 
• a vertical arrangement of stereo or guitar amplification equipment. 
• a number of aircraft flying in circles at different altitudes around the same point while waiting for permission to land at an airport. 
• a pyramidal group of rifles. 
• (the stacks) units of shelving in part of a library, used to store books compactly. 
• Computing a set of storage locations that store data in such a way that the most recently stored item is the first to be retrieved.
2 a chimney, especially one on a factory, or a vertical exhaust pipe on a vehicle. 
• (also sea stack) a column of rock standing in the sea, remaining after erosion of cliffs. 
▶verb [with object]
1 arrange (a number of things) in a pile, typically a neat one: the books had been stacked up in three piles 
she stood up, beginning to stack the plates. 
• fill or cover (a place or surface) with piles of things, typically neat ones: he spent most of the time stacking shelves. 
• cause (an aircraft) to fly in circles while waiting for permission to land at an airport: I hope we aren't stacked for hours over Kennedy.
2 shuffle or arrange (a deck of cards) dishonestly so as to gain an unfair advantage. 
• (be stacked against/in favor of) used to refer to a situation that is such that an unfavorable or a favorable outcome is overwhelmingly likely: the odds were stacked against Fiji in the World Cup 
they found the courts stacked in favor of timber interests.
3 [no object] (in snowboarding) fall over. 
PHRASES
stack arms place a number of rifles with their butts on the ground and the muzzles together.PHRASAL VERBS stack up
1 (or stack something up) form or cause to form a large quantity; build up: cars stack up behind every bus, while passengers stand in line to pay fares.
2 North American informal measure up; compare: our rural schools stack up well against their urban counterparts. 
• [usually with negative] make sense; correspond to reality: to blame the debacle on the antics of a rogue trader is not credible—it doesn't stack up.DERIVATIVES stackable adjective. stacker 
ˈstakər 
nounORIGIN Middle English: from Old Norse stakkr ‘haystack,’ of Germanic origin.
