staff 
BrE stɑːf, AmE stæf 

A.  noun 
① plus singular or plural verb (employees) 全体职员 quántǐ zhíyuán editorial/medical/clerical/managerial staff 编辑/医疗/办事/管理人员 kitchen/hotel/senior staff 厨房/旅馆/高级员工 a business with a staff of ten 一家有10名员工的企业 to join/leave the staff 入职/离职 the staff in this shop are BrE or is AmE very helpful 这家店的店员非常乐于助人 a staff party 员工聚会 the staff canteen 职工食堂 staff development 员工培养 
② plus singular or plural verb (plural staffs) School, University (teachers) 全体教职工 quántǐ jiàozhígōng the school has 50 staff or a staff of 50 这所学校有50名教职工 the teaching staff BrE 教学人员 Mr Jones is joining the staff of St Francis (as a French teacher) 琼斯先生将加入圣弗朗西斯学院（担任法语教师） he's on the staff of the local comprehensive school 他在本地综合中学任职 students, faculty, and staff 学生及教职工 a staff party 教职工聚会 
③ plus singular or plural verb Military 参谋人员 cānmóu rényuán the general and his staff 将军及其参谋人员 a staff posting 参谋职位 
④ (plural staves) (stick) (for walking) 拐杖 guǎizhàng (of shepherd) 曲柄杖 qūbǐng zhàng (as weapon) 棍棒 gùnbàng (as emblem of office) 权杖 quánzhàng (of bishop) 牧杖 mùzhàng (for flag) 旗杆 qígān to lean or rest on one's staff 倚靠在拐杖上 
⑤ (plural staves) Music = stave 
④ 
B.  transitive verb usually passive 为…配备职员 wèi… pèibèi zhíyuán a school staffed by bilingual teachers 一所由双语教师执教的学校 the centre is staffed entirely by volunteers 在该中心工作的全部是志愿者 a well-staffed hotel 员工充足的旅馆 
staff
1 
staf

▶noun
1 [treated as singular or plural] all the people employed by a particular organization: a staff of 600 
hospital staff were not to blame. 
• the teachers in a school or college: [as modifier] : a staff meeting.
2 [treated as singular or plural] a group of officers assisting an officer in command of an army formation or administration headquarters. 
• (usually Staff) short for staff sergeant.
3 a long stick used as a support when walking or climbing or as a weapon. 
• a rod or scepter held as a sign of office or authority. 
• short for flagstaff. 
• Surveying a rod for measuring distances or heights.
4 (plural staves 
stāvz
) (also stave) Music a set of five parallel lines and the spaces between them, on which notes are written to indicate their pitch. 
▶verb [with object] (usually be staffed) provide (an organization, business, etc.) with staff: legal advice centers are staffed by volunteer lawyers 
(as adjective staffed) : all units are fully staffed. 
PHRASES
the staff of life a staple food, especially bread.ORIGIN Old English stæf ( sense
3 of the noun), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch staf and German Stab .
