stagger 
BrE ˈstaɡə, AmE ˈstæɡər 

A.  intransitive verb 蹒跚 pánshān to stagger along the road 沿路蹒跚而行 to stagger to one's feet 摇摇晃晃地站起来 to stagger from one crisis to the next 在接踵而至的危机中举步维艰 
B.  transitive verb 
① usually passive (astonish) 使震惊 shǐ zhènjīng I was staggered by his audacity 他的放肆让我震惊 I was staggered when I heard the news 我听到这个消息时大吃一惊 it staggered me that … 我觉得不可思议的是… 
② (spread out in space) 使交错 shǐ jiāocuò to be staggered along [something] 沿某物交错分布 staggered seating 交错式座位 a staggered junction 错位式交叉口 a staggered start Sport 梯形起跑 tīxíng qǐpǎo 
③ (spread out in time) 使…错开 shǐ… cuòkāi ‹shifts›equal payments staggered over six months 分6个月等额支付的款项 we work staggered hours 我们的上班时间是错开的 a staggered start Sport 错时起跑 
④ (totter) 蹒跚前行 pánshān qiánxíng to stagger a few feet 踉踉跄跄地走几英尺 
C.  noun 
① (movement) 蹒跚 pánshān to walk with a stagger 摇摇晃晃地走 
② (arrangement) 交错安排 jiāocuò ānpái to be arranged in a stagger 交错安排 jiāocuò ānpái 
③ Sport (at start) 梯形起跑 tīxíng qǐpǎo 
stagger 
ˈstaɡər

▶verb
1 [no object] walk or move unsteadily, as if about to fall: he staggered to his feet, swaying a little. 
• [with adverbial of direction] continue in existence or operation uncertainly or precariously: the council staggered from one crisis to the next. 
• archaic waver in purpose; hesitate. 
• [with object] archaic (of a blow) cause (someone) to walk or move unsteadily, as if about to fall: the collision staggered her and she fell.
2 [with object] astonish or deeply shock: I was staggered to find it was six o'clock 
(as adjective staggering) : the staggering bills for maintenance and repair.
3 [with object] arrange (events, payments, hours, etc.) so that they do not occur at the same time; spread over a period of time: meetings are staggered throughout the day. 
• arrange (objects or parts of an object) in a zigzag order or so that they are not in line: stagger the screws at each joint. 
▶noun [in singular]
1 an unsteady walk or movement: she walked with a stagger.
2 an arrangement of things in a zigzag order or so that they are not in line. DERIVATIVES staggerer nounORIGIN late Middle English (as a verb): alteration of dialect stacker, from Old Norse stakra, frequentative of staka ‘push, stagger.’ The noun dates from the late 16th century.
