stage 
BrE steɪdʒ, AmE steɪdʒ 

A.  noun 
① (platform) (for play, show, ceremony) 舞台 wǔtái (for speaker) 讲台 jiǎngtái to go up on (the) stage 上台 to go or be on stage (perform) 登台演出 a star of stage and screen 舞台银幕两栖明星 to hold the stage «actor» 吸引观众 figurative 引人注目 yǐn rén zhùmù to set the stage (for [something]) （使某事物）成为可能 
② Theatre the stage (the theatre as medium) 戏剧界 xìjùjiè (profession) 戏剧表演 xìjù biǎoyǎn a stage actor 戏剧演员 xìjù yǎnyuán to go on/give up the stage 当演员/告别舞台 dāng yǎnyuán/gàobié wǔtái to retire after 40 years on the stage 从事戏剧表演40年后退休 to write for the stage 写舞台剧本 xiě wǔtáijùběn to adapt a novel for the stage 把小说改编为戏剧 her play never reached the stage 她的剧本从未上演 
③ singular figurative (setting, place) 活动舞台 huódòng wǔtái the stage for meetings of world leaders 世界领导人召开会议的场所 the stage of international politics 国际政治舞台 
④ (phase in journey, process, project, etc.) 阶段 jiēduàn stage one/two 第一/第二阶段 at an early stage in or of our history 在我们历史发展的早期 to reach/be at the talking stage «child» 到了/处于开口说话的阶段 I've reached the stage where I have to make a decision 我已经到了必须作决定的时候 at this stage (at this point) 此刻 (for the time being) 眼下 at an earlier/later stage 早些/晚些时候 by or in stages 逐步地 by or in easy stages 从容不迫地 we did the trip from Rome to Paris in easy stages 我们走走歇歇地从罗马旅行到了巴黎 they learnt German by easy stages 他们循序渐进地学会了德语 it's just a stage! (as child grows) 这只是一个必经的阶段！ 
⑤ Aerospace 级 jí a three-stage rocket 三级火箭 
⑥ BrE (on bus route) 行程 xíngchéng 
⑦ (on microscope) 镜台 jìngtái 
⑧ Geology 阶 jiē 
⑨ History = stagecoach 
B.  transitive verb 
① Theatre 上演 shàngyǎn ‹play, performance›
② (organize) 组织 zǔzhī to stage a demonstration/strike/ceremony 举行示威/罢工/仪式 to stage a football match 举办足球赛 to stage a comeback 复出 the dollar staged a recovery 美元汇率出现了回升 
③ (fake) 刻意安排 kèyì ānpái ‹event, scene›the interview was obviously staged 这次采访显然是做样子的 
stage 
stāj

▶noun
1 a point, period, or step in a process or development: there is no need at this stage to give explicit details 
I was in the early stages of pregnancy. 
• a section of a journey or race: the final stage of the journey is made by taxi. 
• each of two or more sections of a rocket or spacecraft that have their own engines and are jettisoned in turn when their propellant is exhausted. 
• [with modifier] Electronics a specified part of a circuit, typically one consisting of a single amplifying transistor or valve with the associated equipment.
2 a raised floor or platform, typically in a theater, on which actors, entertainers, or speakers perform: there are only two characters on stage. 
• (the stage) the acting or theatrical profession: I've always wanted to go on the stage. 
• [in singular] a scene of action or forum of debate, especially in a particular political context: Argentina is playing a leading role on the international stage.
3 a floor or level of a building or structure: the upper stage was added in the 17th century. 
• (on a microscope) a raised and usually movable plate on which a slide or object is placed for examination.
4 Geology (in chronostratigraphy) a range of strata corresponding to an age in time, forming a subdivision of a series. 
• (in paleoclimatology) a period of time marked by a characteristic climate: the Boreal stage.
5 archaic term for stagecoach. 
▶verb [with object]
1 present a performance of (a play or other show): the show is being staged at the Goodspeed Opera House. 
• (of a person or group) organize and participate in (a public event): UDF supporters staged a demonstration in Sofia. 
• cause (something dramatic or unexpected) to happen: the president's attempt to stage a comeback 
the dollar staged a partial recovery.
2 Medicine diagnose or classify (a disease or patient) as having reached a particular stage in the expected progression of the disease. 
PHRASES
hold the stage dominate a scene of action or forum of debate. set the stage for prepare the conditions for (the occurrence or beginning of something): these churchmen helped to set the stage for popular reform. stage left (or right) on the left (or right) side of a stage from the point of view of a performer facing the audience.DERIVATIVES stageability 
ˌstājəˈbilitē 
noun. stageable adjectiveORIGIN Middle English (denoting a floor of a building, a platform, or a stopping place): shortening of Old French estage ‘dwelling,’ based on Latin stare ‘to stand.’ Current senses of the verb date from the early 17th century.
