stain 
BrE steɪn, AmE steɪn 

A.  transitive verb 
① (soil) 弄脏 nòngzāng ‹clothes, carpet, fingers›
② (dye) 给…染色 gěi… rǎnsè ‹wood, fabric›to stain [something] with [something]; 用某物给某物染色 to stain [something] teak/mahogany 把某物漆成柚木色/红木色 
③ figurative (damage) 玷污 diànwū ‹reputation, honour›his good name was stained by the accusation 这一指控玷污了他的好名声 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (mark) «wine, ink, blood» 留下污渍 liúxia wūzì 
② (be marked) «clothes, material» 被弄脏 bèi nòngzāng this fabric stains easily 这种布料容易脏 
C.  noun 
① (mark) 污迹 wūjì a blood/coffee stain 血污/咖啡污渍 to remove a stain from [something] 除去某物上的污点 it will leave a stain 这会留下污渍 
② (dye) 染色剂 rǎnsèjì 
③ figurative (moral blemish) 污点 wūdiǎn without a stain on one's character 品行没有任何污点的 a stain on the reputation or good name of one's family 对家族声誉的玷污 
stain 
stān

▶verb [with object]
1 mark (something) with colored patches or dirty marks that are not easily removed: her clothing was stained with blood 
(as adjective stained) : a stained placemat 
[no object] : red ink can stain. 
• [no object] be marked or be liable to be marked with a stain. 
• damage or bring disgrace to (the reputation or image of someone or something): the awful events would unfairly stain the city's reputation.
2 color (a material or object) by applying a penetrative dye or chemical: wood can always be stained to a darker shade. 
▶noun
1 a colored patch or dirty mark that is difficult to remove: there were mud stains on my shoes. 
• a thing that damages or brings disgrace to someone or something's reputation: he regarded his time in jail as a stain on his character.
2 a penetrative dye or chemical used in coloring a material or object. 
• Biology a special dye used to color organic tissue so as to make the structure visible for microscopic examination. 
• Heraldry any of the minor colors used in blazoning and liveries, especially tenné and sanguine. DERIVATIVES stainable adjective. stainer 
ˈstānər 
nounORIGIN late Middle English (as a verb): shortening of archaic distain, from Old French desteindre ‘tinge with a color different from the natural one.’ The noun was first recorded (mid 16th century) in the sense ‘defilement, disgrace.’
