stake 
BrE steɪk, AmE steɪk 

A.  noun 
① (pole) (for support) 桩 zhuāng (as marker) 标桩 biāozhuāng to drive a stake through [something] 把桩子钉入某物 to pull up stakes AmE 搬家 
② History (for execution) the stake 火刑柱 huǒxíngzhù to be burnt at the stake 被处以火刑 bèi chǔyǐ huǒxíng to go to the stake 受火刑 shòu huǒxíng to go to the stake over [something] figurative 誓死捍卫某事 shìsǐ hànwèi mǒu shì 
③ (amount risked) 赌注 dǔzhù to put a stake on … 对…押注 ‹horse›high/low stakes 大笔/小笔赌注 to play for high stakes literal, figurative 下大赌注 to raise the stakes literal 提高赌注 figurative 增加危险 zēngjiā wēixiǎn to be at stake 有风险 there is a lot at stake 有很大风险 to put [something] at stake literal 对某事物下赌注 figurative 使某事物处于危险中 shǐ mǒu shìwù chǔyú wēixiǎn zhōng 
④ (investment) 股本 gǔběn to have a large/small stake in [something] 在某事物中占很大/很小的股份 
B.  stakes noun plural (prize money) 奖金 jiǎngjīn (race) 赛马锦标会 sàimǎ jǐnbiāohuì ; figurative 比赛 bǐsài she always comes first in the fashion stakes 她参加时装比赛总是拿冠军 
C.  transitive verb 
① (support) 用桩支撑 yòng zhuāng zhīchēng ‹tree, plant›
② (mark) 立桩标出 lì zhuāng biāochū ‹area, plot›to stake a claim (to [something]) 声明（对某物的）所有权 
③ (gamble) 以…打赌 yǐ… dǎdǔ ‹money, hopes›; 拿…冒险 ná… màoxiǎn ‹one's life›to stake [something] on [something]; 用某物赌某物 I would stake my life on it 我愿拿脑袋打赌 to stake one's all on … 为…赌上全部身家 
④ AmE colloquial (back) 资助 zīzhù ‹person, business, project›PHRASAL VERB stake out transitive verb[stake out something/somebody], [stake something/somebody out] 
① (mark) 立桩标出 lì zhuāng biāochū ‹area, plot›
② colloquial (keep under surveillance) 监视 jiānshì ‹building, person›
stake
1 
stāk

▶noun
1 a strong wooden or metal post with a point at one end, driven into the ground to support a tree, form part of a fence, act as a boundary mark, etc. 
• a long vertical rod used in basket-making. 
• a metalworker's small anvil, typically with a projection for fitting into a socket on a bench.
2 (the stake) historical a wooden post to which a person was tied before being burned alive as a punishment.
3 a territorial division of the Mormon Church under the jurisdiction of a president. 
▶verb [with object]
1 support (a tree or plant) with a stake or stakes.
2 (stake something out) mark an area with stakes so as to claim ownership of it: the boundary between the two ranches was properly staked out 
figurative : the local dog staked out his territory. 
• be assertive in defining and defending a position or policy: Elena was staking out a role for herself as a formidable political force. 
PHRASES
pull up stakes North American move or go to live elsewhere. stake a claim assert one's right to something.PHRASAL VERBS stake someone/something out informal continuously watch a place or person in secret: they'd staked out Culley's house for half a day.ORIGIN Old English staca; related to Dutch staak, also to stick2 .
