stall 
BrE stɔːl, AmE stɔl 

A.  noun 
① (at market, fair) 货摊 huòtān (newspaper stand) 报刊亭 bàokāntíng a cake stall 蛋糕摊 to run a stall 经营摊位 to buy [something] from a stall 从摊位上买某物 to set up/take down a stall 搭起/拆掉摊位 to set out one's stall BrE 表明立场 
② (in stable) 牲畜棚隔间 shēngchùpéng géjiān 
③ Aviation 失速 shīsù (of engine) 熄火 xīhuǒ (of car) 抛锚 pāomáo to go or get into a stall 进入失速状态 to get out of a stall 脱离失速状态 
④ Architecture (in church) 靠背扶手座位 kàobèi fúshǒu zuòwèi the choir stalls 唱诗班座位 
⑤ (cubicle for shower, toilet) 小隔间 xiǎo géjiān 
⑥ AmE (parking space) 车位 chēwèi 
B.  stalls noun plural BrE 正厅前排座位 zhèngtīng qiánpái zuòwèi 
C.  intransitive verb 
① Aviation «pilot, aircraft» 失速 shīsù Auto «engine» 熄火 xīhuǒ ; «driver, vehicle» 抛锚 pāomáo the car stalled at a roundabout 汽车在交通环处熄火了 
② (play for time) 拖延时间 tuōyán shíjiān to stall for time 拖延时间 tuōyán shíjiān quit or stop stalling! 不要拖延了！ 
③ (stop, stagnate) «market, talks» 停顿 tíngdùn 
D.  transitive verb 
① Aviation 使…失速 shǐ… shīsù ‹aircraft›Auto 使…熄火 shǐ… xīhuǒ ‹engine›; 使…抛锚 shǐ… pāomáo ‹vehicle›
② (hold up) 拖延 tuōyán ‹negotiations, process, person›
stall 
stôl

▶noun
1 a stand, booth, or compartment for the sale of goods in a market or large covered area: fruit and vegetable stalls.
2 an individual compartment for an animal in a stable or barn, enclosed on three sides. 
• a stable. 
• North American a marked-out parking space for a vehicle. 
• a compartment for one person in a shower room, restroom, or similar facility.
3 a fixed seat in the choir or chancel of a church, more or less enclosed at the back and sides and often canopied, typically reserved for a particular member of the clergy.
4 (stalls) British the seats on the ground floor in a theater.
5 an instance of an engine, vehicle, aircraft, or boat stalling: speed must be maintained to avoid a stall and loss of control. 
▶verb
1 [no object] (of a motor vehicle or its engine) stop running, typically because of an overload on the engine: her car stalled at the crossroads. 
• (of an aircraft or its pilot) reach a condition where the speed is too low to allow effective operation of the controls. 
• Sailing have insufficient wind power in the sails to give controlled motion. 
• [with object] cause (an engine, vehicle, aircraft, or boat) to stall.
2 stop or cause to stop making progress: [no object] : his career had stalled, hers taken off 
[with object] : the government has stalled the much-needed project. 
• speak or act in a deliberately vague way in order to gain more time to deal with a question or issue; prevaricate: she was stalling for time. 
• [with object] delay or divert (someone) by stalling: stall him until I've had time to take a look.
3 [with object] put or keep (an animal) in a stall, especially in order to fatten it. ORIGIN Old English steall ‘stable or cattle shed,’ of Germanic origin; related to Dutch stal, also to stand. Early senses of the verb included ‘reside, dwell’ and ‘bring to a halt.’
