stamp 
BrE stamp, AmE stæmp 

A.  noun 
① (for postage) 邮票 yóupiào a 32p stamp 一枚面值32便士的邮票 a first-/second-class stamp 第一类/第二类邮件所贴的邮票 a book or booklet/sheet of stamps 一本/一版邮票 to put or stick a stamp on ([something]) （给某物）贴上邮票 to collect stamps 集邮 jíyóu 
② Busn (coupon) 赠券 zèngquàn 
③ (marking tool) (made of rubber) 橡皮图章 xiàngpí túzhāng (made of metal) 钢印 gāngyìn a (die) stamp (for coins) 冲模 
④ (mark) 戳记 chuōjì (seal) 印章 yìnzhāng visa stamps 签证章 a document bearing the official stamp 盖有公章的文件 a stamp of approval 许可 to get the parental stamp of approval 得到父母的同意 
⑤ (beating with foot) 跺脚 duòjiǎo (sound) 跺脚声 duòjiǎo shēng with a stamp of one's foot 一跺脚 to give a stamp of anger 气愤地跺一下脚 the stamp of horses' hoofs 马蹄踩踏的声音 
⑥ (marking) (with rubber stamp) 盖章 gàizhāng (with die) 冲压 chòngyā 
⑦ figurative (hallmark) 特征 tèzhēng the stamp of truth 真实性 to bear the stamp of greatness «person» 具有高贵的气质 to set/leave one's stamp on [something] 给某事物打上/留下自己的印记 
⑧ singular (type) 类型 lèixíng women of her stamp 她那样的女人 
B.  transitive verb 
① (print) (with rubber stamp) 盖上 gàishang ‹mark›(with die) 冲压上 chòngyā shang ‹design›the date of entry is stamped in my passport 我的护照盖上了入境日期 the name is stamped on the box 名字印在了盒子上 the crime has revenge stamped all over it figurative 从各方面看，这一犯罪都是为了复仇 
② (mark) (with rubber stamp) 在…上盖章 zài… shang gàizhāng ‹document, book›(with die) 在…上压印图案 zài… shang yāyìn tú'àn to be stamped ‘paid’ «invoice» 盖有“付讫”章 
③ (with foot) 跺 duò to stamp one's feet 跺脚 duòjiǎo to stamp one's foot in anger 气得直跺脚 to stamp [something] flat 把某物踩平 to stamp [something] into the ground 把某物踩进土里 
④ usually passive (of mail) 在…上贴邮票 zài… shang tiē yóupiào to be insufficiently stamped «letter» 邮资不足 
⑤ Technology 冲压 chòngyā to stamp metal discs from or out of a sheet of copper 用一张铜板压制金属圆盘 
⑥ figurative (imprint) 铭刻 míngkè to stamp one's personality on [something] 给…注入自己的个性 ‹project, place›it remains stamped on my memory 这件事一直铭刻在我的记忆中 
⑦ figurative (identify) 表明 biǎomíng his denial stamped him as a liar 他加以否认表明他在撒谎 his clothes stamp him as a foreigner 他的衣着表明他是个外国人 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (bring foot down) «person» 跺脚 duòjiǎo ; «horse» 用蹄子跺地 yòng tízi duò dì to stamp on [something]; 用力踩某物 figurative 压制 yāzhì ‹rebellion›you stamped on my foot! 你踩到我的脚了！ to stamp on the brakes 猛踩刹车 
② (tread heavily) 重步走 zhòngbù zǒu don't stamp! 走路脚步别那么重！ PHRASAL VERBS stamp off 
A.  transitive verb[stamp something off, stamp off something] 跺掉 duòdiào ‹mud, dirt›to stamp [something] off one's shoes 把某物从鞋子上跺掉 
B.  intransitive verb 重步走开 zhòngbù zǒukāi to stamp off in anger 气冲冲地走开 stamp on transitive verb[stamp on something] 坚决压制 jiānjué yāzhì stamp out 
A.  transitive verb[stamp something out, stamp out something] 
① (beat out) 踩灭 cǎimiè ‹fire, embers›
② figurative (crush) 镇压 zhènyā ‹rebellion›; (wipe out) 消除 xiāochú ‹terrorism, crime›to stamp out tax evasion 打击逃税行为 to stamp out the disease 消灭这种疾病 
③ Technology 冲压 chòngyā to be stamped out from a strip of steel 用钢条冲压而成 
B.  intransitive verb 重步走出 zhòngbù zǒuchū to stamp out in a huff 气冲冲地走出去 
stamp 
stamp

▶verb [with object]
1 bring down (one's foot) heavily on the ground or on something on the ground: he stamped his foot in frustration 
[no object] : he threw his cigarette down and stamped on it 
figurative : Robertson stamped on all these suggestions. 
• crush, flatten, or remove with a heavy blow from one's feet: she stamped the snow from her boots. 
• [no object] walk with heavy, forceful steps: John stamped off, muttering.
2 impress a pattern or mark, especially an official one, on (a surface, object, or document) using an engraved or inked block or die or other instrument: the woman stamped my passport. 
• impress (a pattern or mark) on something by engraving or inking: a key with a number stamped on the shaft 
figurative : it's one of those records that has ‘classic’ stamped all over it. 
• make (something) by cutting it out with a die or mold: the knives are stamped out from a flat strip of steel. 
• reveal or mark out as having a particular character, quality, or ability: his style stamps him as a player to watch.
3 affix a postage stamp or stamps onto (a letter or package): Annie stamped the envelope for her.
4 crush or pulverize (ore). 
▶noun
1 an instrument for stamping a pattern or mark, in particular an engraved or inked block or die. 
• a mark or pattern made by a stamping instrument, especially one indicating official validation or certification: passports with visa stamps 
figurative : the emperor gave them his stamp of approval. 
• a characteristic or distinctive impression or quality: the whole project has the stamp of authority. 
• a particular class or type or person or thing: empiricism of this stamp has been especially influential in British philosophy.
2 a small adhesive piece of paper stuck to something to show that an amount of money has been paid, in particular a postage stamp: a first-class stamp.
3 an act or sound of stamping with the foot: the stamp of boots on the bare floor.
4 a block for crushing ore in a stamp mill. 
PHRASES
stamp one's authority (or personality or style etc.) on have a strong or permanent influence on: he must be able to stamp his authority on the team.PHRASAL VERBS stamp something out
1 extinguish a fire by stamping on it: he stamped out the flames before they could grow.
2 suppress or put an end to something by taking decisive action: urgent action is required to stamp out corruption.DERIVATIVES stamper 
ˈstampər 
nounORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘crush to a powder’): of Germanic origin; related to German stampfen ‘stamp with the foot’; reinforced by Old French estamper ‘to stamp.’ Compare with stomp .
