stand 
BrE stand, AmE stænd 

A.  intransitive verb(past tense, past participle stood) 
① (get to or be on feet) 站立 zhànlì she was too weak to stand 她虚弱得站都站不住 everyone stood when the prime minister entered the room 首相进屋时，大家都站了起来 they were standing at the bar 他们站在吧台旁 a bird standing on one leg 单腿独立的鸟 don't just stand there, do something! 别光站在那儿！找点儿事做！ to stand still 停住不动 to stand at attention/ease 立正/稍息 they were left with nothing but the clothes they stood (up) in 他们除了身上穿的衣服已一无所有 to stand on [somebody's] foot 踩到某人的脚 to leave [somebody] standing 把某人远远甩在后面 as a cook, she leaves me standing 她的厨艺比我高明多了 
② (be or become upright) 直立 zhílì these walls have stood for centuries 这些墙已经矗立了好几个世纪 after the shelling only a few houses were left standing 炮击之后只剩几幢房子没倒 the earthquake destroyed the village completely; not a stone remained standing 地震完全摧毁了村庄，一切都被夷为平地 to stand on one's hands 双手倒立 
③ (measure in height) 高度为 gāodù wéi he stands
6 feet in his bare feet 他赤脚身高为6英尺 the tower stands 60 metres high 这座塔高60米 
④ (be positioned) 位于 wèiyú (be) 处于 chǔyú a tree once stood there 那儿曾经有过一棵树 a little town standing by the sea 坐落在海边的小镇 the house has stood empty for years 这栋房子空置了多年 he stood firm against her attempts to persuade him 她试图说服他，但他坚决不让步 I stand corrected 我欢迎指正 as things stand 就目前情况来看 when it came to practical jokes Tom stood alone 说到恶作剧，汤姆无人能比 how do things stand between the two of you at the moment? 你们俩现在关系如何？ nothing stands between me and getting the job 什么也阻止不了我得到那份工作 I won't stand between them 我不会拆散他们 to stand in [somebody's] way 挡住某人的路 figurative 阻拦某人 zǔlán mǒu rén 
⑤ (remain stationary) 停住 tíngzhù our train stood outside the station for half an hour 我们的列车在站外停了半个小时 time seemed to stand still 时间好像停止了 
⑥ (remain valid) 保持有效 bǎochí yǒuxiào (remain unchanged) 保持不变 bǎochí bùbiàn the agreement stands 协议仍然有效 the world record stood for 43 years 这项世界纪录保持了43年 we must let the matter stand and see what happens 我们对此事一定不要插手，静观其变即可 
⑦ (be at certain level) 达到特定水平 dádào tèdìng shuǐpíng (be at certain point of a scale) 达到特定数值 dádào tèdìng shùzhí the thermometer stands at 40°C 温度计的读数为40摄氏度 the budget stood at £2,000 million per annum 预算为每年20亿英镑 to stand at an all-time high/low 创历史最高/最低纪录 
⑧ (be liable) 很可能会 hěn kěnéng huì to stand to do [something]; 很可能会做某事 he stands to make a lot of money 他准能赚大钱 
⑨ (rest) 静止 jìngzhǐ mix the batter and then let it stand for
20 minutes 搅好面糊后醒20分钟 
⑩ BrE (be candidate) 参加竞选 cānjiā jìngxuǎn to stand for parliament/president 竞选议员/总统 to stand as the Labour candidate 作为工党候选人参选 
⑪ (act as) 担任 dānrèn will you stand as godfather for him? 你愿意当他的教父吗？ he refused to stand as guarantor for me/the loan 他拒绝为我/这笔贷款担保 
⑫ (have opinion) 持某观点 chí mǒu guāndiǎn where do you stand on abortion? 你对堕胎持什么观点？ 
B.  transitive verb(past tense, past participle stood) 
① (place) 使…站立 shǐ… zhànlì ‹person›; 使…直立 shǐ… zhílì ‹object›he stood the child on a stool 他让孩子站到凳子上 he stood the ladder against the wall 他把梯子立在墙边 to stand [something] on (its) end 把某物倒置 he stood himself near the door 他站在门边 
② (bear, withstand) 忍受 rěnshòu I can't stand liars! 我无法容忍撒谎的人！ I can't stand her laughing at me 我不能容忍她嘲笑我 she couldn't stand to wait a moment longer 她一刻也等不下去了 modern plastics can stand very high temperatures 新型塑料能承受很高的温度 it won't stand close scrutiny 那事经不起仔细审查 he can't stand the sight of spiders 他一看到蜘蛛就难受 more than flesh and blood can stand 凡人难以忍受的 
③ (pay for) 为…付账 wèi… fùzhàng I'll stand you a slap-up dinner! 我要请你们吃大餐！ he's standing drinks all round 他做东，请大家喝饮料 
C.  noun 
① (attitude) 立场 lìchǎng the party's tough stand on immigration 该党在移民问题上的强硬立场 he has always taken a firm stand on capital punishment 他在死刑问题上一直立场坚定 
② (resistance to attack) 抵抗 dǐkàng to make or put up a stand 进行抵抗 you must make a stand for your principles 你必须捍卫自己的原则 we have to make a stand against racism 我们必须抵制种族主义 
③ (rack, frame) 架 jià (pedestal) 座 zuò he hung his coat on the stand in the hall 他把外套挂在门厅里的衣帽架上 a book stand 书架 
④ (table for selling sth.) 货摊 huòtān (kiosk) 售货亭 shòuhuòtíng a newspaper stand 报摊 a hamburger stand 汉堡包售卖亭 to set up a stand in the market 在市场上摆摊 
⑤ (promoting area or structure) 展台 zhǎntái a display/trade stand 展位/展销台 
⑥ (place for vehicles to wait) 停车候客处 tíngchē hòukèchù 
⑦ Sport (seating structure for spectators) 看台 kàntái 
⑧ (platform) (for a band, orchestra) 舞台 wǔtái (for speaker) 讲台 jiǎngtái 
⑨ (witness box) 证人席 zhèngrenxí to take the stand 出庭作证 
⑩ (stop for performance) 停留演出 tíngliú yǎnchū to get a stand in Liverpool for three performances 在利物浦停留演出三场 
⑪ (standstill) 停止 tíngzhǐ to come to a stand 停下来 owing to heavy snowfalls all trains were at a stand in Scotland 由于下大雪，苏格兰的所有火车都停运了 to bring [something] to a stand 使某事物停下来 
⑫ (cricket partnership) 双人配对 shuāng rén pèiduì 
⑬ (growth of plants) 林分 línfēn a fine stand of wheat/trees 一片长势很好的小麦/树林 PHRASAL VERBS stand about, stand around intransitive verb 站着 zhànzhe to stand about doing [something]; 闲站着做某事 I can't stand about waiting for you all day! 我不能整天闲着等你！ stand aside intransitive verb 
① (move) 站到一边 zhàndào yībiān to stand aside to do [something]; 站到一边做某事 
② (refuse to act) 不作为 bù zuòwéi she just stood aside and let me do everything 她只是袖手旁观，什么事都让我做 
③ (withdraw) 退居一旁 tuìjū yīpáng he stood aside as leader of the party 他让出了该党领袖的位子 stand back intransitive verb 
① (move) 往后站 wǎng hòu zhàn the policeman ordered us to stand back 警察命令我们退后 you should stand back from the painting 你应该站得离那幅画远一些 
② (become detached, objective) 置身事外 zhì shēn shì wài to stand back from [something]; 置身于某事物之外 it's time to stand back and look at your career so far 现在你该从旁观者的角度来看一看自己到目前为止的职业生涯了 
③ to stand back from [something] (be situated) 不是紧挨着某物 bùshi jǐn āizhe mǒu wù the house stands back from the road 房子离公路有一段距离 stand by 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (be prepared) 做好行动准备 zuòhǎo xíngdòng zhǔnbèi the army is standing by with additional supplies 军队随时准备提供更多的补给品 to stand by for [something]; 为某事物做好准备 stand by for lift-off! 准备发射！ to stand by to do [something]; 准备好做某事 we stood by to receive instructions 我们正在待命 
② (remain uninvolved) 袖手旁观 xiù shǒu páng guān you can't just stand by and do nothing 你不能只是袖手旁观，什么都不做 
B.  transitive verb 
① [stand by somebody] (be loyal to) 支持 zhīchí whatever he does, she always stands by her man 不管她丈夫做什么，她都支持他 
② [stand by something] (not break or retract) 遵守 zūnshǒu he stands by everything he said 他从不食言 to stand by one's pledges 信守诺言 stand down 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (resign) «candidate» 退出 tuìchū the President has stood down after five years in office 总统任职5年后下台了 
② (relax after alert) «army, emergency services» 解除警戒状态 jiěchú jǐngjiè zhuàngtài 
③ (leave witness box) «witness» 退出证人席 tuìchū zhèngrenxí 
B.  transitive verb[stand somebody/something down, stand down somebody/something] 命令…解除警戒状态 mìnglìng… jiěchú jǐngjiè zhuàngtài ‹army, emergency services›stand for transitive verb[stand for something] 
① (denote) 表示 biǎoshì OUP stands for Oxford University Press OUP代表牛津大学出版社 
② (represent) 主张 zhǔzhāng I condemn fascism and all it stands for 我谴责法西斯主义以及它的一切主张 
③ (support) 支持 zhīchí a party that stands for racial equality 一个支持种族平等的政党 
④ colloquial (tolerate) 忍受 rěnshòu I will not stand for such outrageous behaviour 我不能容忍如此无礼的行为 to stand for [somebody] doing [something]; 容忍某人做某事 I will not stand for him behaving like that 我不能容忍他那样行事 stand in intransitive verb 代替 dàitì to stand in for [somebody]; 代替某人 stand off 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (move or keep away) 走开 zǒukāi the women stood off at a slight distance 妇女们站得稍远 
② (reach deadlock) «adversaries, opponents» 陷入僵局 xiànrù jiāngjú 
B.  transitive verb[stand somebody off, stand off somebody] BrE (lay off) 解雇 jiěgù stand out intransitive verb 
① to stand out from or against [something] (be noticeable) 在某物的衬托下显眼 zài mǒu wù de chèntuō xia xiǎnyǎn the yellow letters stand out well against the black background 黄色字母在黑色背景的衬托下很醒目 to stand out like a sore thumb colloquial 扎眼 zhāyǎn 
② stand out from [somebody]/[something]; (be better) 比某人/某事物出色 (be more important) 比某人/某事物重要 bǐ mǒu rén/mǒu shìwù zhòngyào she stands out a mile from other candidates 和其他候选人相比，她非常出众 
③ (protrude) 凸出 tūchū veins stood out on his forehead 他额头上青筋凸起 to stand out in (sharp) relief （清晰地）凸显 
④ (resist) 坚持抵抗 jiānchí dǐkàng the workers stood out against attempts to close the company down 工人们坚决抵制关闭公司的企图 stand to 
A.  intransitive verb «sailors, soldiers» 进入戒备状态 jìnrù jièbèi zhuàngtài 
B.  transitive verb[stand somebody to, stand to somebody] 使…进入戒备状态 shǐ… jìnrù jièbèi zhuàngtài ‹sailors, soldiers›stand up 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (get to or be on feet) 站立 zhànlì we stood up when the teacher came into the room 老师走进教室时，我们都站了起来 to stand up straight 站直 to be standing up 站着 zhànzhe 
② (stay upright) 直立 zhílì the tripod wouldn't stand up properly 这副三脚架立不起来 
③ to stand up for [something] (defend, support) 维护某事物 wéihù mǒu shìwù stand up for what you believe in 你要捍卫你的信仰 she stood up for him when he was accused of dishonesty 他被人指责不诚实时，她站出来为他辩护 to stand up for oneself 自我保护 zìwǒ bǎohù 
④ (withstand investigation) 经得起检验 jīngdeqǐ jiǎnyàn the evidence will never stand up in a court of law 这一证据在法庭上根本站不住脚 his case didn't stand up to close scrutiny 他的论据经不起仔细推敲 
⑤ to stand up to [somebody] (resist) 抵抗某人 dǐkàng mǒu rén to stand up to a bully 反抗恶霸逞凶 fǎnkàng èbà chěngxiōng 
⑥ to stand up to [something] (withstand) 经受得住某事物 jīngshòu de zhù mǒu shìwù the car is designed to stand up to our harsh winter climate 这种车的设计使其能够在我们这里冬季的严寒气候里正常行驶 to stand up to a lot of wear and tear 十分耐用 shífēn nàiyòng 
B.  transitive verb 
① [stand somebody/something up, stand up somebody/something] (set upright) 使…站立 shǐ… zhànlì ‹person›; 使…直立 shǐ… zhílì ‹object›to stand a ladder up against a wall 把梯子靠墙立着 after the little boy had fallen over, she stood him up 小男孩摔倒后，她把他扶了起来 
② [stand somebody up, stand up somebody] colloquial (fail to meet) 让…白等 ràng… báiděng she said she'd meet me at
7 o'clock, but she stood me up 她说7点钟和我见面，但她失约了 I was stood up 我空等了一场 
stand 
stand

▶verb (past and past participle stood 
sto͝od
)
1 [no object] have or maintain an upright position, supported by one's feet: Lionel stood in the doorway 
she stood still, heart hammering. 
• rise to one's feet: the two men stood up and shook hands. 
• move to and remain in a specified position: she stood aside to let them enter. 
• [with object] place or set in an upright or specified position: don't stand the plant in direct sunlight.
2 [no object] (of an object, building, or settlement) be situated in a particular place or position: the town stood on a hill 
the hotel stands in three acres of gardens. 
• (of a building or other vertical structure) remain upright and entire rather than fall into ruin or be destroyed: after the heavy storms, only one house was left standing. 
• remain valid or unaltered: my decision stands 
his strikeout record stood for 38 years. 
• (especially of a vehicle) remain stationary: the train now standing on track 3. 
• (of a liquid) collect and remain motionless: avoid planting in soil where water stands in winter. 
• (of food, a mixture, or liquid) rest without disturbance, typically so as to infuse or marinate: pour boiling water over the fruit and leave it to stand for
5 minutes. 
• (of a ship) remain on a specified course: the ship was standing north.
3 [no object] be in a specified state or condition: since mother's death, the house had stood empty 
sorry, darling—I stand corrected. 
• adopt a particular attitude toward a matter or issue: students should consider where they stand on this issue. 
• be of a specified height: Sampson was a small man, standing
5 ft.
4 in. tall. 
• (stand at) be at (a particular level or value): the budget stood at $14 million per annum. 
• [no object, with infinitive] be in a situation where one is likely to do something: investors stood to lose heavily. 
• act in a specified capacity: he stood watch all night. 
• (also stand at stud) (of a stallion) be available for breeding.
4 [with object and often modal] withstand (an experience or test) without being damaged: small boats that could stand the punishment of heavy seas. 
• [usually with negative] informal be able to endure or tolerate: I can't stand the way Mom talks to him.
5 [no object] British be a candidate in an election: he stood for Parliament in 1968.
6 [usually with two objects] provide (food or drink) for someone at one's own expense: somebody in the bar would stand him a beer. 
▶noun
1 [usually in singular] an attitude toward a particular issue; a position taken in an argument: the party's tough stand on welfare 
his traditionalist stand. 
• a determined effort to resist or fight for something: this was not the moment to make a stand for independence 
we have to take a stand against racism. 
• an act of holding one's ground against or halting to resist an opposing force: Custer's legendary last stand.
2 a place where, or an object on which, someone or something stands, sits, or rests, in particular: 
• a large raised tiered structure for spectators, typically at a sports arena: her parents watched from the stands. 
• a rack, base, or piece of furniture for holding, supporting, or displaying something: a microphone stand. 
• a small stall or booth in a street, market, or public building from which goods are sold: a hot-dog stand. 
• a raised platform for a band, orchestra, or speaker. 
• (the stand) (also witness stand) a witness box: Sergeant Harris took the stand. 
• the place where someone typically stands or sits: she took her stand in front of the desks. 
• a place where vehicles, typically taxicabs, wait for passengers.
3 [usually in singular] a cessation from motion or progress: the train drew to a stand by the signal box. 
• each halt made on a touring theatrical production to give one or more performances.
4 a group of growing plants of a specified kind, especially trees: a stand of poplars. 
PHRASES
as it stands in its present condition: there are no merits in the proposal as it stands. 
• (also as things stand) in the present circumstances: the country would struggle, as it stands, to host the next Winter Olympic Games. it stands to reason see reason. stand a chance see chance. stand one's ground maintain one's position, typically in the face of opposition: she stood her ground, refusing to let him intimidate her. stand someone in good stead see stead. stand on one's own (two) feet be or become self-reliant or independent. stand out a mile see mile. stand out like a sore thumb see sore. stand pat see pat2. stand trial be tried in a court of law. stand up and be counted state publicly one's support for someone or something. will the real —— please stand up informal used rhetorically to indicate that the specified person should clarify their position or reveal their true character: he was so different from the unhappy man of a week ago—would the real Jack Lawrence please stand up?PHRASAL VERBS stand alone be unequaled: when it came to fun, Julia stood alone. stand aside take no action to prevent, or not involve oneself in, something that is happening: the army had stood aside as the monarchy fell. 
• withdraw or resign from a position or office: the acting prime minister refused to stand aside to permit Sir Julius to resume his post. stand back withdraw from a situation emotionally in order to view it more objectively. stand by
1 be present while something bad is happening but fail to take any action to stop it: he was beaten to the ground as onlookers stood by.
2 support or remain loyal to (someone), typically in a time of need: she had stood by him during his years in prison. 
• adhere to or abide by (something promised, stated, or decided): the government must stand by its pledges.
3 be ready to deal or assist with something: two battalions were on their way, and a third was standing by. stand down
1 withdraw or resign from a position or office: he stood down as leader of the party.
2 (stand down or stand someone down) relax or cause to relax after a state of readiness: if something doesn't happen soon, I guess they'll stand us down.
3 (of a witness) leave the witness stand after giving evidence. stand for
1 be an abbreviation of or symbol for: NASA stands for National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
2 [with negative] informal refuse to endure or tolerate: I won't stand for any nonsense.
3 support (a cause or principle): we stand for animal welfare. stand in
1 deputize: Brown stood in for the injured Simpson.
2 Nautical sail closer to the shore. stand off move or keep away: the women stood off at a slight distance. 
• Nautical sail further away from the shore. stand someone off keep someone away: repel someone. stand on
1 be scrupulous in the observance of: call me Alex—let's not stand on formality.
2 Nautical continue on the same course. stand out
1 project from a surface: the veins in his neck stood out. 
• be easily noticeable: he was one of those men who stood out in a crowd. 
• be clearly better or more significant than someone or something: four issues stand out as being of crucial importance.
2 persist in opposition or support of something: she stood out against public opinion 
the company stood out for the product it wanted. stand over
1 stand close to (someone) so as to watch, supervise, or intimidate them.
2 (stand over or stand something over) be postponed or postpone to be dealt with at a later date: a number of points were stood over to a further meeting. stand to [often in imperative] Military stand ready for an attack, especially one before dawn or after dark. stand up (of an argument, claim, evidence, etc.) remain valid after close scrutiny or analysis: but will your story stand up in court? stand someone up informal fail to keep an appointment with a boyfriend or girlfriend. stand up for speak or act in support of: she learned to stand up for herself. 
• act as best man for in a wedding. stand up to
1 make a spirited defense against: giving workers the confidence to stand up to their employers.
2 be resistant to the harmful effects of (prolonged wear or use).DERIVATIVES stander nounORIGIN Old English standan (verb), stand (noun), of Germanic origin, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin stare and Greek histanai, also by the noun stead .
