star 
BrE stɑː, AmE stɑr 

A.  noun 
① Astronomy 星 xīng under the stars 在星空下 to camp out under the stars 露天宿营 to reach for the stars 有远大志向 to see stars colloquial 眼冒金星 to have stars in one's eyes 渴望成名 
② (shape) 星形 xīngxíng the walls were painted with moons and stars 墙上画着月亮和星星 
③ (celebrity) 明星 míngxīng a pop/Hollywood star 流行音乐歌星/好莱坞影星 a tennis star 网球明星 the film made him a star overnight 这部影片使他一夜成名 before noun 明星的 míngxīng de star treatment 明星级的待遇 
④ (main performer) 主角 zhǔjué ; before noun 主角的 zhǔjué de to have a star role in a play 在一部剧中担任主角 
⑤ (best of group) 最优秀者 zuì yōuxiù zhě she is the star of the class 她是班上最优秀的学生 before noun 最优秀的 zuì yōuxiù de the star performer 表现最佳者 the star prize 特等奖 
⑥ (rating mark for hotel or restaurant) 星级 xīngjí this hotel has three stars 这家旅馆是三星级的 a four-star restaurant 四星级餐馆 
⑦ (asterisk) 星号 xīnghào 
⑧ (badge of law enforcement officer) 星徽 xīnghuī 
⑨ (mark of rank on military uniform) 星章 xīngzhāng how many stars does the general have? 这位将军有几颗星？ a five-star general 五星上将 
⑩ School (award sticker) [作为表扬的] 星形贴 xīngxíngtiē I got a gold star for my work 我的作业得了一颗金星 
⑪ (white patch on an animal's forehead) 白斑 báibān 
⑫ colloquial (helpful person) 给予帮助的人 jǐyǔ bāngzhù de rén thanks! you’re a star! 谢谢！你真是个大好人！ 
⑬ (planet or constellation influencing person's fate) 星宿 xīngxiù it's written in the stars 这是命中注定的 to be born under a lucky/an unlucky star 生来命好/命不好 → lucky 
② 
B.  stars noun plural BrE colloquial (horoscope) 星象 xīngxiàng do you read your stars? 你读星象方面的内容吗？ what do my stars say? 我的星象怎么样？ 
C.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -rr-) 
① (feature) «film, play» 由…担任主角 yóu… dānrèn zhǔjué ; «director, studio» 使主演 shǐ zhǔyǎn a movie starring Leonardo DiCaprio 一部由莱昂纳多迪卡普里奥主演的电影 Hitchcock starred her in many of his films 希区柯克让她主演了他执导的多部电影 
② (mark with asterisk) 用星号标出 yòng xīnghào biāochū starred dishes on the menu are suitable for vegetarians 菜单上标有星号的菜品适合素食者 
③ (decorate) 用星形物装饰 yòng xīngxíngwù zhuāngshì sea urchins starred the pale rocks 海胆像星星一样点缀着灰白的礁石 a meadow starred with wild flowers 野花星星点点点缀其间的草地 
D.  intransitive verb(present participle etc. -rr-) 主演 zhǔyǎn he stars as Henry V 他扮演主角亨利五世 she starred with or opposite Keanu Reeves in The Matrix 她和基努里维斯搭档，在《黑客帝国》中饰演男女主角 she has a starring role in the new play 她在新剧中担任主角 
star 
stär

▶noun
1 a fixed luminous point in the night sky that is a large, remote incandescent body like the sun. True stars were formerly known as the fixed stars, to distinguish them from the planets or wandering stars. They are gaseous spheres consisting primarily of hydrogen and helium, there being an equilibrium between the compressional force of gravity and the outward pressure of radiation resulting from internal thermonuclear fusion reactions. Some six thousand stars are visible to the naked eye, but there are actually more than a hundred billion in our own Galaxy, while billions of other galaxies are known.
2 a conventional or stylized representation of a star, typically one having five or more points: the walls were painted with silver moons and stars. 
• a star symbol used to indicate a category of excellence: the hotel has three stars. 
• an asterisk. 
• a white patch on the forehead of a horse or other animal. 
• (also star network) [usually as modifier] a data or communication network in which all nodes are independently connected to one central unit: computers in a star layout.
3 a famous or exceptionally talented performer in the world of entertainment or sports: a pop star 
[as modifier] : singers of star quality. 
• an outstandingly good or successful person or thing in a group: a rising star in the party 
[as modifier] : Ellen was a star student.
4 Astrology a planet, constellation, or configuration regarded as influencing someone's fortunes or personality: his golf destiny was written in the stars. 
• (stars) a horoscope published in a newspaper or magazine: what do my stars say? 
▶verb (stars, starring, starred) [with object]
1 (of a movie, play, or other show) have (someone) as a principal performer: a film starring Liza Minnelli. 
• [no object] (of a performer) have a principal role in a movie, play, or other show: McQueen had starred in such epics as The Magnificent Seven 
(as adjective starring) : his first starring role. 
• [no object] (of a person) perform brilliantly or prominently in a particular endeavor or event: Vitt starred at third base for the Detroit Tigers.
2 decorate or cover with star-shaped marks or objects: thick grass starred with flowers. 
• mark (something) for special notice or recommendation with an asterisk or other star-shaped symbol: the activities listed below are starred according to their fitness ratings 
[as adjective, in combination] (-starred) : Michelin-starred restaurants. 
PHRASES
my stars! informal, dated an expression of astonishment. reach for the stars have high or ambitious aims. see stars see flashes of light, especially as a result of being hit on the head. someone's star is rising see rise. stars in one's eyes used to describe someone who is idealistically hopeful or enthusiastic about their future: a singer selected from hundreds of applicants with stars in their eyes.DERIVATIVES starless 
ˈstärləs 
adjective. starlike 
ˈstärˌlīk 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English steorra, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch ster,German Stern, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin stella and Greek astēr .
