state 
BrE steɪt, AmE steɪt 

A.  noun 
① Countable(condition) 状况 zhuàngkuàng [somebody's] financial state 某人的经济状况 he is in a confused state of mind 他思维混乱 she's in a poor state of health 她健康状况不佳 the building is in a bad state of repair 这幢建筑年久失修 in a state of undress 赤身裸体的 he's not in a fit state to drive 他现在的状态不宜开车 
② Countablecolloquial (agitated condition) 焦虑不安 jiāolǜ bù'ān to be in a state 焦虑不安 jiāolǜ bù'ān to get (oneself) in or into a state 变得焦虑不安 
③ Countable BrE colloquial (mess) 脏乱 zāngluàn what a state this place is in! 这地方真够乱的！ look at the state of you! 看看你这副邋遢样子！ 
④ Countable(molecular condition) 态 tài a gaseous/solid state 气态/固态 water in a liquid state 液态水 
⑤ State Countable(country) 国家 guójiā a sovereign State 主权国家 EU member State 欧盟成员国 the State of Israel 以色列国 a State within a State 国中之国 
⑥ State Countable(part of country) 州 zhōu the southern States of the US 美国南部各州 
⑦ Countable and uncountable(government) 政府 zhèngfǔ matters or affairs of state 国家大事 the separation of church and state 政教分离 
⑧ Uncountable(formal ceremony) 国事礼仪 guóshì lǐyí robes of state 御礼袍 the President was driven in state to the White House 总统隆重地乘车前往白宫 she will lie in state in Westminster Abbey 她的遗体下葬前将安放在威斯敏斯特大教堂接受吊唁 
B.  States noun plural the States colloquial = the United States of America 美国 Měiguó 
C.  adjective 
① (of government) 国家的 guójiā de a state school/company 公立学校/国有企业 state benefits 政府救济金 
② (of part of country) 州的 zhōu de state taxes 州税 the state legislature 州立法机关 
③ (ceremonial) 国事礼仪的 guóshì lǐyí de a state banquet/coach 国宴/皇家马车 to go on a state visit to Tokyo 对东京进行国事访问 the state apartments 国事活动厅 guóshì huódòngtīng 
D.  transitive verb 
① (say, write) 陈述 chénshù to state one's position 阐明立场 to state one's intention to run for election 表示打算参加竞选 he stated categorically that he knew nothing about the deal 他明确表示对此交易一无所知 it was stated that standards at the hospital were dropping 据称这家医院的医疗水准在下降 to state the obvious 陈述人尽皆知的情况 as stated above/below 如上/下所述 
② (provide as information) 说明 shuōmíng to state one's name and address 报出姓名和住址 state clearly how many tickets you require 说清楚你需要多少张票 
③ (specify) 规定 guīdìng this is not one of their stated aims 在他们的既定目标里没有这一条 do not exceed the stated dose 不要超过规定的剂量 you must arrive at the stated time or at the time stated 你必须在规定时间到达 
④ Law 陈述 chénshù to state one's case 陈述案情 
state 
stāt

▶noun
1 the particular condition that someone or something is in at a specific time: the state of the company's finances 
we're worried about her state of mind. 
• a physical condition as regards internal or molecular form or structure: water in a liquid state. 
• [in singular] (a state) informal an agitated or anxious condition: don't get into a state. 
• [in singular] informal a dirty or untidy condition: look at the state of you—what a mess! 
• Physics short for quantum state.
2 a nation or territory considered as an organized political community under one government: Germany, Italy, and other European states. 
• an organized political community or area forming part of a federal republic: the German state of Bavaria. 
• (the States) informal term for United States.
3 the civil government of a country: services provided by the state 
[in combination] : state-run agency 
King Fahd appointed a council to advise him on affairs of state. 
• (the States) the legislative body in Jersey, Guernsey, and Alderney.
4 pomp and ceremony associated with monarchy or high levels of government: he was buried in state.
5 [usually with modifier] an impression taken from an etched or engraved plate at a particular stage. 
• a particular printed version of the first edition of a book, distinguished from others by prepublication changes. 
▶adjective [attributive]
1 of, provided by, or concerned with the civil government of a country: the future of state education 
a state secret.
2 used or done on ceremonial occasions; involving the ceremony associated with a head of state: a state visit to Hungary by Queen Elizabeth. 
▶verb
1 [reporting verb] express something definitely or clearly in speech or writing: [with clause] : the report stated that more than 51 percent of voters failed to participate 
[with direct speech] : “Money hasn't changed me,” she stated firmly 
[with object] : people will be invited to state their views. 
• [with object] chiefly Law specify the facts of (a case) for consideration: judges must give both sides an equal opportunity to state their case.
2 [with object] Music present or introduce (a theme or melody) in a composition. 
PHRASES
state of affairs (or things) a situation or set of circumstances: the survey revealed a sorry state of affairs in schools.state of the art the most recent stage in the development of a product, incorporating the newest ideas and the most up-to-date features. 
• (as adjective state-of-the-art) incorporating the newest ideas and the most up-to-date features: a new state-of-the-art hospital. state of emergency a situation of national danger or disaster in which a government suspends normal constitutional procedures in order to regain control: the government has declared a state of emergency. state of grace a condition of being free from sin. state of life (in religious contexts) a person's occupation, calling, or status. state of war a situation when war has been declared or is in progress.DERIVATIVES statable adjectiveORIGIN Middle English (as a noun): partly a shortening of estate, partly from Latin status ‘manner of standing, condition’ (see status). The current verb senses date from the mid 17th century.
