steady 
BrE ˈstɛdi, AmE ˈstɛdi 

A.  adjective 
① (unchanging, lasting) 稳定的 wěndìng de (regular) 均匀的 jūnyún de a steady job 固定工作 a steady stream of visitors 稳定的游客流量 a steady outflow of oil from the tank 从油箱里源源不断流出的油 they set off at a steady pace 他们以不急不慢的速度出发了 to drive at a steady 80 km/h 以每小时80公里的匀速行驶 the steady beat of the drums 均匀的鼓点 his breathing was steady 他呼吸平稳 to keep one's weight steady 保持体重 to hold steady «share prices, interest rates» 保持稳定 
② (not wobbly) 稳的 wěn de to make a table steady 使桌子不摇晃 a good eye and a steady hand 眼尖手稳 to hold a ladder/needle steady 把梯子扶稳/把针拿稳 to be not very steady on one's feet 走路不稳当 
③ (not wavering) 镇定的 zhèndìng de a steady, even voice 沉稳平和的嗓音 a steady gaze 凝视的目光 my nerves aren't very steady today 我今天有点儿心神不定 
④ (gradual) 稳步的 wěnbù de a steady decline in numbers 数量的持续下降 five years of steady economic growth 持续5年的经济平稳增长 
⑤ (long-term) 关系稳定的 guānxì wěndìng de ‹boyfriend, girlfriend›I'm in a steady relationship 我有确定的恋爱对象 to go steady (with [somebody]) dated colloquial （与某人）保持稳定的男女朋友关系 
⑥ (resolute) 坚定的 jiāndìng de ‹purpose›her faith remained steady throughout this crisis 在这场危机中，她的信念始终没有动摇过 
⑦ (level-headed) 沉着的 chénzhuó de ‹young man, worker›
B.  exclamation (keep calm) 小心 xiǎoxīn steady! don’t fall off 当心！别摔下来 steady on! BrE colloquial (be more careful!) 小心点儿！ (calm down!) 冷静！ 
C.  transitive verb 
① (prevent from wobbling) 使平稳 shǐ píngwěn to steady one's hand 稳住手 to steady a ladder 放稳梯子 
② (calm) 使镇定 shǐ zhèndìng I took a deep breath to steady my nerves 我深吸一口气，让自己平静下来 
D.  intransitive verb 
① (stop wobbling) «boat, hand» 变稳 biàn wěn the lift rocked slightly, steadied, and the doors opened 电梯微微一晃，稳定下来，然后门开了 
② (become calm) «tone, nerves» 镇定下来 zhèndìng xialai his voice steadied as his confidence returned 他恢复了信心，声音变得镇定自若 
③ (stop changing) «prices, interest rates» 稳定下来 wěndìng xialai the pound steadied against the dollar 英镑对美元的汇率稳定下来了 
④ (become regular) «heartbeat, pulse» 恢复平稳 huīfù píngwěn her breathing slowly steadied 她的呼吸慢慢平稳下来 
E.  reflexive verb 
① (physically) to steady oneself 站稳 zhànwěn she steadied herself against the wall 她靠墙站稳 tā kào qiáng zhànwěn 
② (mentally) to steady oneself 镇定下来 zhèndìng xialai 
steady 
ˈstedē

▶adjective (steadier, steadiest)
1 firmly fixed, supported, or balanced; not shaking or moving: the lighter the camera, the harder it is to hold steady 
he refilled her glass with a steady hand. 
• not faltering or wavering; controlled: a steady gaze 
she tried to keep her voice steady. 
• (of a person) sensible, reliable, and self-restrained: a solid, steady young man.
2 regular, even, and continuous in development, frequency, or intensity: a steady decline in the national birth rate 
sales remain steady. 
• not changing; regular and established: I thought I'd better get a steady job 
a steady boyfriend. 
• (of a ship) moving without deviation from its course. 
▶verb (steadies, steadying, steadied) make or become steady: [with object] : I took a deep breath to steady my nerves 
(as adjective steadying) : she's the one steadying influence in his life 
[no object] : by the beginning of May prices had steadied. 
▶exclam. used as a warning to someone to keep calm or take care: Steady now! We don't want you hurting yourself. 
▶noun (plural steadies) informal a person's regular boyfriend or girlfriend: his steady chucked him two weeks ago. 
PHRASES
go steady informal have a regular romantic or sexual relationship with a particular person. steady on! British used as a way of exhorting someone to calm down or be more reasonable in what they are saying or doing.DERIVATIVES steadier noun. steadiness 
ˈstedēnəs 
nounORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘unwavering, without deviation’): from stead + -y1. The verb dates from the mid 16th century.
