steam 
BrE stiːm, AmE stim 

A.  nounUncountable
① (vapour) 水蒸气 shuǐzhēngqì (as source of power) 蒸汽动力 zhēngqì dònglì engines powered by steam 蒸汽机 to let off or blow off steam colloquial (release energy) 消耗精力 (release strong emotions) 宣泄情绪 (release anger) 发泄怒气 under one's own steam colloquial 靠自己的力量 she says she'll get there under her own steam colloquial 她说她会自个儿去那里 to get or pick up steam (increase speed) «vehicle» 逐渐加速 (get more powerful) «campaign» 逐渐形成声势 to raise steam 提高蒸汽压力 to run out of steam colloquial «person» 筋疲力尽 «campaign, economy» 失去活力 shīqù huólì to go full steam ahead «production» 全力进行 
② (locomotives, railways) 蒸汽机车 zhēngqì jīchē the age of steam 蒸汽时代 zhēngqì shídài 
③ (air moisture, condensation) 水汽 shuǐqì my breath turned to steam in the cold 我呼出的气在寒冷的天气中化成了汽雾 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (cook over boiling water) «food» 蒸煮 zhēngzhǔ add the mussels and leave them to steam 加上贻贝，然后蒸一蒸 
② (give off hot gas) 散发蒸汽 sànfā zhēngqì a kettle was steaming on the stove 水壶在炉子上冒着蒸汽 a mug of steaming hot coffee 一大杯热气腾腾的咖啡 
③ (produce moisture in air) 形成水汽 xíngchéng shuǐqì the roofs were steaming in the early-morning sunlight 在清晨的阳光下，屋顶上冒出了汽雾 
④ (move under steam power) 靠蒸汽动力行驶 kào zhēngqì dònglì xíngshǐ the boat steamed across the lake 汽船驶过湖面 
⑤ colloquial (move fast) 快速行进 kuàisù xíngjìn to steam down the motorway at 100 mph 以100英里的时速沿着高速公路疾驰 she steamed out of his office when she heard this 她听到这话后冲出了他的办公室 
C.  transitive verb 蒸 zhēng steamed fish 清蒸鱼 PHRASAL VERBS steam ahead intransitive verb 进展迅速 jìnzhǎn xùnsù the company is steaming ahead with its new investment programme 公司正抓紧实施新的投资方案 steam off 
A.  intransitive verb 靠蒸汽动力离开 kào zhēngqì dònglì líkāi the train steamed off towards London 蒸汽列车驶向伦敦 
B.  transitive verb[steam something off, steam off something] 用蒸汽使脱离 yòng zhēngqì shǐ tuōlí to steam the stamp off the envelope 用蒸汽把邮票从信封上揭下来 steam open transitive verb [steam something open, steam open something] 用蒸汽把…拆开 yòng zhēngqì bǎ… chāikāi to steam an envelope open 用蒸汽开启信封 steam up 
A.  intransitive verb 蒙上水汽 méngshang shuǐqì my glasses have steamed up! 我的眼镜上起了一层雾！ 
B.  transitive verb[steam something up, steam up something] 使蒙上水汽 shǐ méngshang shuǐqì 
steam 
stēm

▶noun the vapor into which water is converted when heated, forming a white mist of minute water droplets in the air. 
• the invisible gaseous form of water, formed by boiling, from which vapor condenses. 
• the expansive force of steam used as a source of power for machines: the equipment was originally powered by steam 
[as modifier] : a steam train. 
• locomotives and railroad systems powered by steam: the last years of steam. 
• energy and momentum or impetus: the anticorruption drive gathered steam. 
▶verb
1 [no object] give off or produce steam: a mug of coffee was steaming at her elbow. 
• (steam up or steam something up) become or cause to become covered or misted over with steam: the glass keeps steaming up 
[with object] : the warm air had begun to steam up the windows. 
• (often be/get steamed up) informal be or become extremely agitated or angry: you got all steamed up over nothing! 
after steaming behind the closed door in his office, he came out and screamed at her.
2 [with object] cook (food) by heating it in steam from boiling water: steam the vegetables until just tender. 
• [no object] (of food) cook by being heated in steam from boiling water: add the mussels and leave them to steam. 
• clean or otherwise treat with steam: he steamed his shirts in the bathroom to remove the wrinkles. 
• [with object and complement or adverbial] apply steam to (something fixed with adhesive) so as to open or loosen it: he'd steamed the letter open and then resealed it. 
• operate (a steam locomotive).
3 [no object, with adverbial of direction] (of a ship or train) travel somewhere under steam power: the 11:54 steamed into the station. 
• informal come, go, or move somewhere rapidly or in a forceful way: Jerry steamed in ten minutes late 
figurative : the company has steamed ahead with its investment program. 
• [no object] (steam in) British informal start or join a fight. 
• [no object] (often as noun steaming) British informal (of a gang of thieves) move rapidly through a public place, stealing things or robbing people on the way. 
PHRASES
pick up (or get up) steam
1 generate enough pressure to drive a steam engine.
2 (of a project in its early stages) gradually gain more impetus and driving force: his campaign steadily picked up steam. have steam coming out of one's ears informal be extremely angry or irritated. in steam (of a steam locomotive) ready for work, with steam in the boiler. let (or blow) off steam informal (of a person) get rid of pent-up energy or strong emotion. run out of (or lose) steam informal lose impetus or enthusiasm: a rebellion that had run out of steam. under one's own steam (with reference to travel) without assistance from others: we're going to have to get there under our own steam. under steam (of a machine) being operated by steam.ORIGIN Old English stēam ‘vapor,’ stēman ‘emit a scent, be exhaled,’ of Germanic origin; related to Dutch stoom ‘steam.’
