steer
1 
BrE stɪə, AmE stɪr 

A.  transitive verb 
① (control direction of) 驾驶 jiàshǐ to steer a bicycle 骑自行车 to steer the car through the entrance 把车开进大门 he steered the boat into the harbour 他将船开进港口 
② (escort) 带领 dàilǐng she took my arm and steered me towards the door 她抓住我的胳膊，把我带往门口 he was steered to a chair in the corner 他被领到角落里的一把椅子前 
③ (follow forward) 沿着…前进 yánzhe… qiánjìn to steer a direct course for the port 沿着一条笔直的航线驶往港口 he steered his way towards the buffet table 他朝自助餐桌走去 
④ (bring to desired state) 引导 yǐndǎo he tried to steer the conversation away from his divorce 他试图把谈话从他离婚一事上转移开 to steer a bill through parliament 使法案在国会通过 she steered the team to victory 她率领全队取得了胜利 
⑤ (adopt, follow) 遵循 zūnxún the skill is in steering a middle course between the two extremes 技巧在于避开两个极端，走中间路线 to steer one's way towards a solution/to success 寻求解决的办法/走上成功的道路 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (control direction of movement) 驾驶 jiàshǐ you row and I’ll steer 你划桨，我来掌舵 they steered due south 他们朝着正南方行驶 he steered into the parking area 他把车开进了停车位 to steer by the stars 根据星星的位置导航 to steer clear of [somebody]/[something] 避开某人/某事物 you’d best steer clear of him 你最好离他远点儿 
② (move in particular direction) 行驶 xíngshǐ the ship steered into port 船驶进了港口 
③ (be able to be guided in particular way) «vehicle, ship, plane» 可驾驶 kě jiàshǐ how does the car steer now? 现在这辆车开起来怎么样？ the boat didn't steer very well because the rudder was bent 这条船驾驶起来不太灵活，因为舵弯了 
C.  noun colloquial (tip) 指点 zhǐdiǎn to ask for a steer 征求建议 to give [somebody] a bum steer AmE 误导某人 
steer
1 
stir

▶verb [with object] (of a person) guide or control the movement of (a vehicle, vessel, or aircraft), for example by turning a wheel or operating a rudder: he steered the boat slowly toward the busy quay 
[no object] : he let Lily steer. 
• [no object] (of a vehicle, vessel, or aircraft) be guided in a specified direction: the ship steered into port. 
• follow (a course) in a specified direction: the fishermen were steering a direct course for Kodiak. 
• guide the movement or course of (someone or something): he had steered her to a chair 
figurative : he made an attempt to steer the conversation back to Heather. 
▶noun informal a piece of advice or information concerning the development of a situation: the need for the school to be given a clear steer as to its future direction. 
PHRASES
steer clear of take care to avoid or keep away from: his program steers clear of prickly local issues. steer a middle course see middle. DERIVATIVES steerable 
ˈsti(ə)rəbəl 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English stīeran, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch sturen and German steuern .
