sticky 
BrE ˈstɪki, AmE ˈstɪki 
noun 
① (tending to adhere) 黏糊糊的 niánhúhú de ‹fingers, floor, dough, cake›; 有背胶的 yǒu bèijiāo de ‹label, plaster›; 粘牙的 zhānyá de ‹toffee, syrup›to be sticky to the touch 摸上去黏糊糊的 to have sticky fingers 有顺手牵羊的毛病 
② (hot and humid) 闷热的 mēnrè de ‹weather, climate›; (damp with sweat) 汗津津的 hànjīnjīn de ‹person, skin›
③ colloquial (difficult) 棘手的 jíshǒu de ‹problem, situation›to be sticky about [something]/doing [something]; 对于某事/做某事很不爽快 to come to a sticky end 落得可悲的下场 
④ Computing colloquial 富有吸引力的 fùyǒu xīyǐnlì de ‹website, page›
sticky 
ˈstikē

▶adjective (stickier, stickiest)
1 tending or designed to stick to things on contact or covered with something that sticks: her sticky bubblegum 
sticky tape. 
• (of a substance) glutinous; viscous: the dough should be moist but not sticky. 
• (of prices, interest rates, or wages) slow to change or react to change.
2 (of the weather) hot and damp; muggy: it was an unusually hot and sticky summer. 
• damp with sweat: she felt hot and sticky and changed her clothes.
3 informal involving problems; difficult or awkward: the relationship is going through a sticky patch.
4 (of a website or its content) attracting a long visit or repeat visits from users: make your site as sticky as possible to keep visitors there longer 
more and more often, web designers focus on the need to add sticky features to their sites. 
• (of a thread in an online forum) set to remain at the top of the other threads regardless of when it was last updated: a sticky thread is now live on the forum. 
• informal long-lasting or persistent: his new nickname has proved to be surprisingly sticky. 
▶noun (plural stickies) (in an online forum) a thread containing important information that is set to remain at the top of the other threads regardless of when it was last updated: could you put a sticky in the forum for those of us that are confused? 
PHRASES
sticky fingers informal a propensity to steal. sticky wicket see wicket. DERIVATIVES stickily 
ˈstikəlē 
adverb. stickiness 
ˈstikēnəs 
noun
