stiff 
BrE stɪf, AmE stɪf 

A.  adjective 
① (rigid) 硬的 yìng de stiff cardboard 硬纸板 a pair of stiff shoes 一双坚硬的鞋子 a stiff upper lip ［面对痛苦或困境时的] 泰然自若 to keep a stiff upper lip 不动声色 
② (hard to move) 不易移动的 bù yì yídòng de the windows were stiff, and she couldn’t get them open 窗户很紧，她打不开 
③ (unable to move easily) 僵硬的 jiāngyìng de to have stiff legs 两腿僵直 she was really stiff after sleeping on the floor 在地板上睡了一觉之后，她觉得浑身酸痛 
④ (thick) 稠的 chóu de to beat the egg whites until stiff 把蛋清打到变稠为止 
⑤ (difficult) 艰难的 jiānnán de a pretty stiff exam/climb 相当难的考试/相当费劲儿的攀爬 stiff competition/opposition 激烈的竞争/强烈的反对 
⑥ (severe) 严厉的 yánlì de ‹penalty, warning›
⑦ (greater than normal) 过高的 guò gāo de stiff fines 高额罚款 £2,000? that's a bit stiff, isn't it! 2,000英镑？那太贵了点儿吧！ 
⑧ (blowing strongly) 强劲的 qiángjìng de ‹wind›
⑨ (high in alcohol) 烈性的 lièxìng de ‹drink›
⑩ (formal, not relaxed) 生硬的 shēngyìng de a stiff smile 牵强的微笑 
B.  adverb colloquial 极其 jíqí that man bores me stiff! 那人让我厌烦透了！ to be scared stiff 怕得要死 
C.  nouncolloquial 
① (corpse) 死尸 sǐshī 
② AmE (stuffy person) 古板的人 gǔbǎn de rén 
D.  transitive verb AmE colloquial 
① (fail to pay) 不付钱给 bù fù qián gěi she stiffed an appliance store on a refrigerator 她没给一家电器商店付冰箱钱 
② (fail to tip) 不给…小费 bù gěi… xiǎofèi 
stiff 
stif

▶adjective
1 not easily bent or changed in shape; rigid: a stiff black collar 
stiff cardboard. 
• (of a semiliquid substance) viscous; thick: add wheat until the mixture is quite stiff. 
• not moving as freely as is usual or desirable; difficult to turn or operate: a stiff drawer 
the faucet in the shower is a little stiff. 
• (of a person or part of the body) unable to move easily and without pain: he was stiff from sitting on the desk 
a stiff back. 
• (of a person or their manner) not relaxed or friendly; constrained: she greeted him with stiff politeness.
2 severe or strong: they face stiff fines and a possible jail sentence 
a stiff increase in taxes. 
• (of a wind) blowing strongly: a stiff breeze stirring the lake. 
• requiring strength or effort; difficult: a long stiff climb up the bare hillside. 
• (of an alcoholic drink) strong: a stiff measure of brandy.
3 [predicative] (stiff with) informal full of: the place is stiff with alarm systems.
4 (—— stiff) informal having a specified unpleasant feeling to an extreme extent: she was scared stiff 
I was bored stiff with my project.
5 Bridge a card that is the only one of its suit in a hand: two red aces and a stiff club. 
▶noun informal
1 a dead body.
2 chiefly North American a boring, conventional person: ordinary working stiffs in respectable offices. 
• a fellow; an ordinary person: the lucky stiff! 
▶verb [with object] informal
1 North American cheat (someone) out of something, especially money: several workers were stiffed out of their pay. 
• fail to leave (someone) a tip.
2 North American ignore deliberately; snub. 
• fail to appear for a promised engagement or appointment: he stiffed us and didn't show up.
3 kill: I want to get those pigs who stiffed your doctor. 
• [no object] be unsuccessful: as soon as he began singing about the wife and kids, his albums stiffed. 
PHRASES
stiff as a board informal (of a person or part of the body) extremely stiff. a stiff upper lip a quality of uncomplaining stoicism: senior managers had to keep a stiff upper lip and remain optimistic.DERIVATIVES stiffish adjectiveORIGIN Old English stīf, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch stijf .
