sting 
BrE stɪŋ, AmE stɪŋ 

A.  transitive verb(past tense, past participle stung) 
① (wound) «bee» 蜇 zhē ; «insect» 叮 dīng 
② (cause pain to) «smoke, whip, wind, nettle» 刺疼 cìténg ‹person, skin, eyes›
③ figurative (hurt) «remark, insult, criticism» 刺痛 cìtòng to sting [somebody] into action 刺激某人采取行动 
④ colloquial (swindle) 敲诈 qiāozhà to sting [somebody] for [something]; 宰某人某数额 to sting [somebody] for £10 敲某人10英镑的竹杠 
B.  intransitive verb(past tense, past participle stung) 
① (hurt, be site of pain) «cut, hand, eyes» 感觉刺痛 gǎnjué cìtòng it stings! 真蜇人！ to sting from or with [something]; 因某物而感到刺痛 
② (cause pain) «nettle, insect» 引起刺痛感 yǐnqǐ cìtòng gǎn bitter remarks that really stung 十分伤人的刻薄话 
C.  noun 
① (wound) (of bee, wasp, scorpion) 蜇伤 zhēshāng (of mosquito) 叮伤 dīngshāng (of plant) 刺伤 cìshāng 
② (organ) (of insect, scorpion) 蜇针 zhēzhēn (of plant) 刺 cì 
③ (pain) 刺痛 cìtòng 
④ figurative (hurtful effect) 痛苦 tòngkǔ to take the sting out of [something] 减轻某事物引起的痛苦 a sting in the tail 煞风景的结局 
⑤ especially AmE colloquial (in con game, law enforcement) 圈套 quāntào a sting operation 诱捕的圈套 
sting 
stiNG

▶noun
1 a small sharp-pointed organ at the end of the abdomen of bees, wasps, ants, and scorpions, capable of inflicting a painful or dangerous wound by injecting poison. 
• any of a number of minute hairs or other organs of plants, jellyfishes, etc., that inject a poisonous or irritating fluid when touched. 
• a wound from the sting of an insect or plant: a wasp or bee sting. 
• a sharp tingling or burning pain or sensation: I felt the sting of the cold, bitter air. 
• [in singular] a hurtful quality or effect: she smiled to take the sting out of her words.
2 informal a carefully planned operation, typically one involving deception: five blackmailers were jailed last week after they were snared in a police sting. 
▶verb (past and past participle stung 
stəNG
)
1 [with object] wound or pierce with a sting: he was stung by a jellyfish 
[no object] : a nettle stings if you brush it lightly.
2 feel or cause to feel a sharp tingling or burning pain or sensation: [no object] : her eyes stung 
[with object] : the brandy stung his throat 
(as adjective stinging) : a stinging pain. 
• [with object] (typically of something said) hurt or upset (someone): stung by her mockery, Frank hung his head. 
• (sting someone into) provoke someone to do (something) by causing annoyance or offense: he was stung into action by an article in the paper.
3 [with object] informal swindle or exorbitantly overcharge (someone): an elaborate fraud that stung a bank for thousands. 
PHRASES
sting in the tail an unexpected, typically unpleasant or problematic end to something: the Budget comes with a sting in the tail—future tax increases.DERIVATIVES stingingly adverb. stingless 
ˈstiNGləs 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English sting (noun), stingan (verb), of Germanic origin.
