stir 
BrE stəː, AmE stər 

A.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -rr-) 
① (mix) 搅动 jiǎodòng she stirred her tea with a silver spoon 她用银汤匙搅了搅茶 the vegetables are stirred into the rice while it is hot 趁米饭热时把蔬菜拌进去 
② (move slightly) 使微动 shǐ wēi dòng a gentle breeze stirred the branches 微风吹动了树枝 
③ (cause to take action) 使行动 shǐ xíngdòng their complaints have finally stirred him into action 他们的抱怨最终促使他采取了行动 a noise stirred me from sleep 响声把我从睡梦中惊醒 
④ (affect emotionally) 使…激动 shǐ… jīdòng ‹person›; 激发 jīfā ‹emotions, imagination, curiosity›the film stirred many memories of my childhood 这部电影唤起了我童年的许多记忆 the sight of the hungry children stirred her to pity 孩子们饥饿的样子使她动了恻隐之心 to stir the blood 令人激动 
⑤ BrE colloquial to stir it (cause trouble) 挑拨是非 tiǎobō shìfēi 
B.  intransitive verb(present participle etc. -rr-) 
① (mix) 搅动 jiǎodòng stir well before use 使用前先充分搅拌 
② (move slightly) 微动 wēi dòng she stirred in her sleep 她在睡梦中微微动了一下 
③ (wake up) 醒来 xǐnglái it was
11 o'clock, and still no one was stirring 已经11点了，还没有人起来 
④ (budge) 离开 líkāi you haven’t stirred from the sofa all evening! 你坐在沙发上一晚上没动了！ he seldom stirred out of his house 他很少出门 
⑤ (begin to be felt) 萌生 méngshēng old memories began to stir as we talked 我们交谈时，对往事的回忆渐渐涌上心头 a feeling of guilt began to stir in her or in her heart 她心里渐渐生出了内疚感 
⑥ BrE colloquial (cause trouble) 挑拨是非 tiǎobō shìfēi 
C.  reflexive verb(present participle etc. -rr-) to stir oneself 行动起来 xíngdòng qilai come on, stir yourself! you’re late! 快，快走吧！你要迟到了！ 
D.  noun 
① Countable(act of mixing) 搅动 jiǎodòng to give [something] a stir 把某物搅一搅 
② Countable(commotion) 骚动 sāodòng to cause or create or make a stir 引起骚动 her resignation caused quite a stir 她的辞职引起很大震动 
③ Uncountablecolloquial (prison) 监牢 jiānláo to be in stir 坐牢 PHRASAL VERBS stir in transitive verb [to stir something in, to stir in something] 把…搅进去 bǎ… jiǎo jìnqu ‹liquid, substance›stir up 
A.  [stir something up, stir up something] transitive verb 
① (elicit) 激起 jīqǐ ‹emotions›the photographs stirred up old memories 这些照片唤起了对往事的记忆 a campaign to stir up support for the plan 为该计划寻求支持的活动 
② (cause) 挑起 tiǎoqǐ ‹trouble, debate›to stir things up 挑起事端 
③ (move around) 搅起 jiǎoqǐ the swirling wind stirred up dust and sand 旋风扬起了沙尘 
B.  [stir somebody up, to stir up somebody] transitive verb (excite) 鼓动 gǔdòng they were stirred up to rebellion 他们被煽动起来参加叛乱 
stir
1 
stər

▶verb (stirs, stirring, stirred)
1 [with object] move a spoon or other implement around in (a liquid or other substance) in order to mix it thoroughly: stir the batter until it is just combined. 
• (stir something in/into) add an ingredient to (a liquid or other substance) by mixing it in with a spoon or other implement: stir in the flour and cook gently for two minutes.
2 move or cause to move slightly: [no object] : nothing stirred except the wind 
[with object] : a gentle breeze stirred the leaves 
cloudiness is caused by the fish stirring up mud. 
• (of a person or animal) rise or wake from sleep: no one else had stirred yet. 
• (stir from) (of a person) leave or go out of (a place): as he grew older, he seldom stirred from his apartment. 
• begin or cause to begin to be active or to develop: [no object] : the 1960s, when the civil rights movement stirred 
[with object] : a voice stirred her from her reverie 
he even stirred himself to play an encore.
3 [with object] arouse strong feelings in (someone); move or excite: they will be stirred to action by what is written 
he stirred up the sweating crowd. 
• arouse or prompt (a feeling or memory) or inspire (the imagination): the story stirred many memories of my childhood 
the rumors had stirred up his anger. 
▶noun [in singular]
1 a slight physical movement: I stood, straining eyes and ears for the faintest stir. 
• a commotion: the event caused quite a stir. 
• an initial sign of a specified feeling: Caroline felt a stir of anger deep within her breast.
2 an act of mixing food or drink with a spoon or other implement: he gives his chocolate milk a stir. 
PHRASES
stir someone's blood make someone excited or enthusiastic. stir one's stumps [often in imperative] British informal, dated (of a person) begin to move or act.PHRASAL VERBS stir something up cause or provoke trouble or bad feeling: he accused me of trying to stir up trouble.ORIGIN Old English styrian, of Germanic origin; related to German stören ‘disturb.’
