stock 
BrE stɒk, AmE stɑk 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(available goods) 存货 cúnhuò we don’t carry a large stock of pine furniture 松木家具我们备货不多 to be in/out of stock 有货/没货 to take stock (of [something]) (make list) 清点（某物的）存货 (carry out review) （对某事物）作出评估 
② Uncountable and countable(supply, store, accumulation) 储备 chǔbèi to build up a good stock of teaching materials 积累大量的教学资料 food stocks are running low 食物储备越来越少了 the housing stock 住房存量 his vast stock of knowledge 他丰富的知识储备 
③ UncountableFinance (capital) 股本 gǔběn 
④ usually plural Finance (portion of capital) 股份 gǔfèn stocks closed higher on Wall Street last night 昨晚华尔街股市收高 
⑤ Uncountable and countable BrE Finance (government securities) 公债券 gōngzhàiquàn 
⑥ Uncountable(farm animals) 家畜 jiāchù dairy stock 奶畜 
⑦ Uncountable(descent) 世系 shìxì she was of French stock 她是法国人的后裔 to come from farming stock 出身农民世家 
⑧ Uncountable and countableCulinary (liquid) 高汤 gāotāng fish/vegetable stock 鱼汤/菜汤 
⑨ Uncountableformal (personal standing or reputation) 名声 míngshēng her stock is high/low 她的声望很高/很低 his stock is rising/falling 他声誉日隆/日衰 
⑩ Countable(part of firearm, instrument, tool etc.) (handle) 柄 bǐng (base) 基座 jīzuò (support) 支座 zhīzuò a gun stock 枪托 
⑪ Uncountable and countable(garden plant) 紫罗兰 zǐluólán 
⑫ Uncountable and countable(plant receiving graft) 砧木 zhēnmù 
⑬ CountableGames (pile of cards) 发剩下的牌 fā shèngxia de pái 
B.  stocks noun plural 
① History, Law 刑枷 xíngjiā to be put in the stocks 被戴上刑枷 
② Nautical 船台 chuántái to be on the stocks (be under construction) «ship» 在建造中 figurative (be in preparation) 在准备中 zài zhǔnbèi zhōng our new model is already on the stocks and will be available in the spring 我们已着手生产新的款式，春天就可以上市 
C.  adjectivebefore noun 
① (usually kept for sale) 常备的 chángbèi de ‹item, size›
② (relating to goods kept) 存货的 cúnhuò de ‹level, valuation›stock turnover 存货周转率 
③ pejorative (hackneyed) 陈腐的 chénfǔ de a stock answer/phrase 老一套的回答/说法 
④ (typical) 常见的 chángjiàn de ‹character, theme, scene›
⑤ Cinema, Television 现成的 xiànchéng de ‹footage, shot›
⑥ Finance 股票的 gǔpiào de stock prices/dividends 股价/股息 
⑦ Agriculture 家畜的 jiāchù de stock farming 畜牧业 xùmùyè 
D.  transitive verb 
① (sell) 库存 kùcún ‹goods›do they stock green tea? 他们有绿茶卖吗？ they stock all sizes 他们的库存尺码齐全 
② (fill) 在…中贮存 zài… zhōng zhùcún the pond was well stocked with fish 池塘里有很多鱼 a well-stocked library 馆藏丰富的图书馆 PHRASAL VERB stock up 
A.  intransitive verb 贮备 zhùbèi to stock up on or with [something]; 备足某物 we ought to stock up with film before our trip 我们应该在旅行前备足胶卷 to stock up for Christmas 为过圣诞节大采购 
B.  transitive verb[stock something up, stock up something] 把…装满 bǎ… zhuāngmǎn ‹freezer, cupboard›
stock 
stäk

▶noun
1 the goods or merchandise kept on the premises of a business or warehouse and available for sale or distribution: the store has a very low turnover of stock 
buy now, while stocks last! 
[as modifier] : stock shortages. 
• a supply or quantity of something accumulated or available for future use: I need to replenish my stock of wine 
fish stocks are being dangerously depleted. 
• farm animals such as cattle, pigs, and sheep, bred and kept for their meat or milk; livestock. 
• short for rolling stock. 
• (also film stock) photographic film that has not been exposed or processed. 
• (in some card games) the cards that have not yet been dealt, left on the table to be drawn.
2 the capital raised by a business or corporation through the issue and subscription of shares: between 1982 and 1986, the value of the company's stock rose by 86%. 
• (also stocks) shares of stock of a particular company as held by an individual or group as an investment: she owned $3000 worth of stock. 
• (also stocks) the shares of a particular company, type of company, or industry: blue-chip stocks. 
• securities issued by the government in fixed units with a fixed rate of interest: government gilt-edged stock. 
• a person's reputation or popularity: I felt I was right, but my stock was low with this establishment.
3 liquid made by cooking bones, meat, fish, or vegetables slowly in water, used as a basis for the preparation of soup, gravy, or sauces: a pint of chicken stock. 
• [with modifier] the raw material from which a specified commodity can be manufactured: the fat can be used as soap stock.
4 [usually with adjective or noun modifier] a person's ancestry or line of descent: her mother was of French stock 
both of them came from peasant stock. 
• a breed, variety, or population of an animal or plant.
5 the trunk or woody stem of a living tree or shrub, especially one into which a graft (scion) is inserted. 
• the perennial part of a herbaceous plant, especially a rhizome.
6 a herbaceous European plant that is widely cultivated for its fragrant flowers, which are typically lilac, pink, or white. [mid 17th century: from stock-gillyflower.] [Genus Matthiola, family Brassicaceae: several species.]
7 (the stocks) [treated as singular or plural] historical an instrument of punishment consisting of an adjustable wooden structure with holes for securing a person's feet and hands, in which criminals were locked and exposed to public ridicule or assault.
8 the part of a rifle or other firearm to which the barrel and firing mechanism are attached, held against one's shoulder when firing the gun. 
• the crosspiece of an anchor. 
• the handle of something such as a whip or fishing rod. 
• short for headstock ( sense 1). 
• short for tailstock.
9 a band of white material tied like a cravat and worn as a part of formal horse-riding dress. 
• a piece of black material worn under a clerical collar.
10 (stocks) a frame used to support a ship or boat out of water, especially when under construction. 
▶adjective [attributive]
1 (of a product or type of product) usually kept in stock and thus regularly available for sale: 25 percent off stock items.
2 (of a phrase or expression) so regularly used as to be automatic or hackneyed: “Two weeks” was the stock reply. 
• denoting a conventional character type or situation that recurs in a particular genre of literature, theater, or film: the stock characters in every cowboy movie. 
• denoting or relating to cinematic footage that can be regularly used in different productions, typically that of outdoor scenes used to add realism to a production shot in an indoor set. 
▶verb [with object]
1 have or keep a supply of (a particular product or type or product) available for sale: most supermarkets now stock a range of organic produce. 
• provide or fill with goods, items, or a supply of something: I must stock up the fridge 
[as adjective, with submodifier or in combination] (stocked) : a well-stocked store. 
• [no object] (stock up) amass supplies of something, typically for a particular occasion or purpose: I'm stocking up for Christmas 
you'd better stock up with fuel.
2 fit (a rifle or other firearm) with a stock. 
PHRASES
in (or out of) stock (of goods) available (or unavailable) for immediate sale in a store. on the stocks in construction or preparation: also on the stocks is a bill to bring about tax relief for these businesses. put stock in [often with negative] have a specified amount of belief or faith in: I don't put much stock in modern medicine. take stock review or make an overall assessment of a particular situation, typically as a prelude to making a decision: he needed a period of peace and quiet in order to take stock of his life.DERIVATIVES stockless adjectiveORIGIN Old English stoc(c) ‘trunk, block of wood, post,’ of Germanic origin; related to Dutch stok and German Stock ‘stick.’ The notion ‘store, fund’ ( sense
1 of the noun and sense
2 of the noun) arose in late Middle English and is of obscure origin, perhaps expressing ‘growth from a central stem’ or ‘firm foundation.’
