stomach 
BrE ˈstʌmək, AmE ˈstəmək 

A.  noun 
① Countable(internal organ) 胃 wèi he says he's got a pain in his stomach 他说他胃疼 my stomach started rumbling with hunger 我的肚子饿得开始咕咕叫了 a stomach upset BrE 胃部不适 you shouldn’t exercise on a full/an empty stomach 你不应该吃饱了就运动/空腹去运动 the pit of one's stomach 心窝 he had a sudden sinking feeling in the pit of his stomach 他内心深处突然涌起一阵不祥之感 to have a strong stomach (have good digestion) 胃口好 (not be squeamish) 能忍受恶心事物 to turn [somebody's] stomach 使某人恶心 to be sick to one's stomach (be upset) 感到心烦意乱 (be afraid) 感到非常害怕 especially AmE (want to vomit) 感觉想吐 gǎnjué xiǎng tù to be sick to one's stomach of [somebody]/[something] (be fed up) 对某人/某事物感到厌烦 [somebody's] eyes are bigger than their stomach 某人眼大肚子小 
② Countable(front part of body) 腹部 fùbù she kicked him in the stomach 她踢在他的肚子上 a dog lying on its stomach 一条趴着的狗 an army marches on its stomach proverb 兵马未动，粮草先行 
③ Uncountable and countable(appetite) 胃口 wèikǒu she had no stomach for the leftover stew/to eat anything 她不想吃剩下的炖菜/什么也不想吃 
④ Uncountable and countable(desire) 欲望 yùwàng he had no stomach for a fight 他不想打架 
B.  transitive verb 
① (endure, tolerate) 欣然接受 xīnrán jiēshòu ‹thing›; 喜欢和…相处 xǐhuan hé… xiāngchǔ ‹person›I can’t stomach violent films 我不喜欢暴力影片 I find him very hard to stomach 我发现很难和他相处 
② (physically tolerate) 吃得下 chīdexia she couldn’t stomach any breakfast 她早饭一点都吃不下 
stomach 
ˈstəmək

▶noun
1 the internal organ in which the major part of the digestion of food occurs, being (in humans and many mammals) a pear-shaped enlargement of the alimentary canal linking the esophagus to the small intestine. 
• each of four digestive organs in a ruminant (the rumen, reticulum, omasum, and abomasum). 
• any of a number of organs analogous to a stomach in lower animals. 
• the front part of the body between the chest and thighs; the belly: Blake hit him in the stomach. 
• [in singular] the stomach viewed as the seat of hunger, nausea, anxiety, or other unsettling feelings: Virginia had a sick feeling in her stomach.
2 [in singular, usually with negative] an appetite for food or drink: she doesn't have the stomach to eat anything. 
• a desire or inclination for something involving conflict, difficulty, or unpleasantness: the teams proved to have no stomach for a fight 
[with infinitive] : frankly, I don't have the stomach to find out. 
▶verb [with object] (usually cannot stomach) consume (food or drink) without feeling or being sick: if you cannot stomach orange juice, try apple juice. 
• endure or accept (an obnoxious thing or person): I can't stomach the self-righteous attitude of some managers. 
PHRASES
an army marches on its stomach a group of soldiers or workers can only fight or function effectively if they have been well fed. [translating French c'est la soupe qui fait le soldat, a maxim of Napoleon.] on a full (or an empty) stomach after having eaten (or having not eaten): I think better on a full stomach. a strong stomach an ability to see or do unpleasant things without feeling sick or squeamish.DERIVATIVES stomachful 
ˈstəməkˌfo͝ol 
noun (plural stomachfuls) ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French estomac, stomaque, via Latin from Greek stomakhos ‘gullet,’ from stoma ‘mouth.’ The early sense of the verb was ‘be offended at, resent’ (early 16th century).
