stone 
BrE stəʊn, AmE stoʊn 

A.  noun 
① Countable(small rock) 石块 shíkuài a pile of stones 一堆石块 to leave no stone unturned figurative 想尽一切办法 to sink like a stone 急速下沉 a stone's throw figurative 很近的距离 we live just a stone’s throw from here 我们就住在附近 to cast or throw the first stone (at [somebody]) figurative 率先责难（某人） 
② Uncountable(hard substance) 石头 shítou a slab of stone 一块石板 to work stone 加工石料 stone walls/jars 石墙/石坛 to be made of stone literal 是用石头造的 figurative (unfeeling) 冷酷无情 lěngkù wúqíng to have a heart of stone 铁石心肠 to be as hard as stone literal 和石头一样坚硬 figurative (unfeeling) 冷酷无情 lěngkù wúqíng to be set or written in (tablets of) stone figurative 板上钉钉 to set [something] in stone figurative 使某事不可更改 
③ Countable(for particular purpose) [有特定用途的] 石块 shíkuài a commemorative stone 纪念碑 a stone for grinding knives 磨刀石 
④ Countable(gem) 宝石 bǎoshí to set a stone in [something] 在某物上镶宝石 
⑤ Countableespecially BrE (of fruit) 果核 guǒhé a peach/cherry stone 桃核/樱桃核 
⑥ CountableMedicine 结石 jiéshí 
⑦ Countable(plural stone) BrE (unit of weight) 英石 yīngshí [合14磅或6.35千克]he’s trying to lose a stone 他试图减去1英石的体重 
B.  transitive verb 
① (throw rocks at) 向…扔石块 xiàng… rēng shíkuài to stone [somebody] to death 用石头砸死某人 stone me or the crows! BrE colloquial dated 天哪！ well, stone the crows! he's done it all by himself! 哎呀！全是他自己做的！ 
② (remove stone from) 去掉…的核 qù diào… de hé ‹peach, cherry›
stone 
stōn

▶noun
1 the hard, solid, nonmetallic mineral matter of which rock is made, especially as a building material: the houses are built of stone 
[as modifier] : high stone walls. 
• a small piece of rock found on the ground. 
• (in metaphorical use) weight or lack of feeling, expression, or movement: Isabel stood as if turned to stone 
her face became as hard as stone 
the elevator dropped like a stone. 
• Astronomy a meteorite made of rock, as opposed to metal. 
• Medicine a calculus; a gallstone or kidney stone.
2 a piece of stone shaped for a purpose, especially one of commemoration, ceremony, or demarcation: a memorial stone 
boundary stones. 
• a gem or jewel. 
• short for curling stone. 
• a round piece or counter, originally made of stone, used in various board games such as backgammon. 
• a large flat table or sheet, originally made of stone and later usually of metal, on which pages of type were made up.
3 a hard seed in a cherry, plum, peach, and some other fruits.
4 (plural same) British a unit of weight equal to
14 pounds (6.35 kg): I weighed
10 stone.
5 a natural shade of whitish-gray or brownish-gray: [as modifier] : stone stretch trousers. 
▶verb [with object]
1 throw stones at: policemen were stoned by the crowd.
2 remove the stone from (a fruit): halve, stone, and peel the avocados.
3 build, face, or pave with stone. 
PHRASES
be written (or engraved or set) in stone used to emphasize that something is fixed and unchangeable: anything can change—nothing is written in stone. cast (or throw) the first stone be the first to make an accusation (used to emphasize that a potential critic is not wholly blameless). [with biblical allusion to John 8:7.] leave no stone unturned try every possible course of action in order to achieve something. stone me! (or stone the crows!) British informal an exclamation of surprise or shock.a stone's throw a short distance: wild whales blowing a stone's throw from the boat.DERIVATIVES stoneless 
ˈstōnləs 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English stān (noun), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch steen and German Stein. The verb dates from Middle English (first recorded sense
1 of the noun).
