storm 
BrE stɔːm, AmE stɔrm 

A.  noun 
① (very bad weather) (with rain) 暴风雨 bàofēngyǔ (with snow) 暴风雪 bàofēngxuě (with thunder and lightning) 雷暴 léibào we were or got caught in the storm and got drenched to the skin 我们遭遇了暴风雨，浑身都湿透了 a storm is brewing or gathering 暴风雨要来了 the storm broke, and the rain began to pour down 暴风雨降临了，大雨开始倾盆而下 
② Meteorology (force
10 wind) 狂风 kuángfēng 
③ (controversy) 风暴 fēngbào to cause or create or raise a political storm 引发一场政治风暴 a storm is brewing over … 一场风暴正在酝酿 to bring a storm (down) about [somebody's] ears 导致某人遭受激烈的批评 
④ (outburst) 爆发 bàofā a storm of applause 暴风雨般的掌声 a storm of protest 抗议的浪潮 
⑤ (large number) 纷飞 fēnfēi a storm of bullets 枪林弹雨 
⑥ (direct assault) 猛攻 měng gōng to take a city/fortress by storm 突袭城市/要塞 to take [somebody]/[something] by storm figurative 使某人为之倾倒/在某地大获成功 the play took London by storm 这部剧风靡伦敦 
B.  storms noun plural AmE (protective windows) 外重窗 wàichóngchuāng ; (protective doors) 外重门 wàichóngmén 
C.  transitive verb 
① (attack) 突袭 tūxí ‹building, place›
② (shout) 怒吼 nùhǒu ‘don't you know who I am?’she stormed “你不知道我是谁吗？”她怒喝道 
D.  intransitive verb 
① (move angrily) 气呼呼地走 qìhūhū de zǒu (move at a pace) 向前闯 xiàng qián chuǎng to storm into 怒气冲冲地闯入 ‹room, house› 闯进 chuǎngjìn ‹semi-finals, lead position›to storm off 气呼呼地跑开 
② (launch attack) 突袭 tūxí troops stormed into the city at dawn 部队在拂晓时分攻入城内 
③ (be angry) 大发雷霆 dà fā léitíng to storm at [somebody]; 对某人大发雷霆 
④ Meteorology (with rain) 有暴风雨 yǒu bàofēngyǔ (with snow) 有暴风雪 yǒu bàofēngxuě (with thunder and lightning) 有雷暴 yǒu léibào it stormed last night 昨夜雷雨大作 
storm 
stôrm

▶noun
1 a violent disturbance of the atmosphere with strong winds and usually rain, thunder, lightning, or snow. 
• (also storm system) an intense low-pressure weather system; a cyclone. 
• a wind of force
10 on the Beaufort scale (48–55 knots or 55-63 mph). 
• a heavy discharge of missiles or blows: two men were taken by a storm of bullets.
2 [usually in singular] a tumultuous reaction; an uproar or controversy: the book caused a storm in South America 
she has been at the center of a storm concerning payments. 
• a violent or noisy outburst of a specified feeling or reaction: the disclosure raised a storm of protest.
3 (storms) North American storm windows.
4 a direct assault by troops on a fortified place. 
▶verb
1 [no object] move angrily or forcefully in a specified direction: she burst into tears and stormed off 
he stormed out of the house. 
• [with direct speech] shout (something) angrily; rage: “Don't patronize me!” she stormed. 
• move forcefully and decisively to a specified position in a game or contest: he barged past and stormed to the checkered flag.
2 [with object] (of troops) suddenly attack and capture (a building or other place) by means of force: Indian commandos stormed a hijacked plane early today 
(as noun storming) : the storming of the Bastille.
3 [no object] (of the weather) be violent, with strong winds and usually rain, thunder, lightning, or snow: when it stormed in the day, I shoveled the drive before Harry came home. 
PHRASES
go down a storm British be enthusiastically received by an audience. the calm (or lull) before the storm a period of unusual tranquility or stability that seems likely to presage difficult times. storm and stress another term for Sturm und Drang. a storm in a teacup British term for a tempest in a teapot (see tempest). take something by storm (of troops) capture a place by a sudden and violent attack. 
• have great and rapid success in a particular place or with a particular group of people: his first collection took the fashion world by storm. —— up a storm chiefly North American perform the specified action with great enthusiasm and energy: the band could really play up a storm.DERIVATIVES stormproof 
ˈstôrmˌpro͞of 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch storm and German Sturm, probably also to the verb stir1. The verb dates from late Middle English in sense
3 of the verb .
