story 
BrE ˈstɔːri, AmE ˈstɔri 
noun 
① (tale) 故事 gùshi to tell/read ([somebody]) a story （给某人）讲/读故事 stories of ancient Greece 古希腊故事 the story of Robin Hood 罗宾汉的传说 the story goes that … 据说… she never saw him again, or so the story goes 她再也没有见到他，或者据说如此 
② (account) 对往事的叙述 duì wǎngshì de xùshù the true story is that … 事情的真相是… he told us the story of his life 他给我们讲述了他的生平经历 the story of the Beatles 披头士乐队的来龙去脉 there are two sides to every story figurative 每个故事都可以从两个方面看 to have similar stories 有相似的经历 to tell the same story 有相同的经历 it's a long story colloquial 说来话长 to cut BrE or make AmE a long story short colloquial 长话短说 a likely story! colloquial ironic 听上去像是那么回事！ that's the story of my life colloquial 我就是这个命 
③ (version) 陈述 chénshù we must stick to our story about the accident 对事故的说法我们必须一口咬定 
④ singular (situation) 情况 qíngkuàng the whole or full story 全部情况 only part or half of the story 只是部分情况 it's the same old story, it's always the same story 还是老一套 many years later I returned to Africa, but that’s another story 多年后我又重返非洲，不过这是后话了 in public the couple were all smiles; in private it was a different story 这对夫妻在公开场合满面笑容，私下里则完全两样 
⑤ Journalism 新闻报道 xīnwén bàodào an exclusive story on or about [something] 有关某事物的独家报道 the incident will make a good story 这一事件将成为新闻报道的好题材 to carry or run a story 刊登一篇报道 
⑥ (plot, events) 情节 qíngjié a film with a good story to it 情节精彩的电影 the story was taken from a Russian novel 故事情节取材自一部俄罗斯小说 the story is set in Normandy 故事发生的背景是诺曼底 
⑦ colloquial (lie) 谎言 huǎngyán to tell stories 撒谎 to make up or invent a story (about [somebody]/[something]) 编造（关于某人/某事物的）谎言 
⑧ (rumour) 谣传 yáochuán all sorts of stories about him are going round the office 办公室里流传着关于他的种种流言 
⑨ AmE (floor) = storey 
story
1 
ˈstôrē

▶noun (plural stories)
1 an account of imaginary or real people and events told for entertainment: an adventure story 
I'm going to tell you a story. 
• a plot or story line: the novel has a good story. 
• a report of an item of news in a newspaper, magazine, or news broadcast: stories in the local papers. 
• a piece of gossip; a rumor: there have been lots of stories going around, as you can imagine. 
• informal a false statement or explanation; a lie: Ellie never told stories—she had always believed in the truth.
2 an account of past events in someone's life or in the evolution of something: the story of modern farming 
the film is based on a true story. 
• a particular person's representation of the facts of a matter, especially as given in self-defense: during police interviews, Harper changed his story. 
• [in singular] a situation viewed in terms of the information known about it or its similarity to another: having such information is useful, but it is not the whole story 
many children with leukemia now survive—twenty years ago it was a very different story. 
PHRASES
but that's another story informal used after raising a matter to indicate that one does not want to expand on it for now. it's a long story informal used to indicate that, for now, one does not want to talk about something that is too involved or painful. it's (or that's) the story of one's life informal used to lament the fact that a particular misfortune has happened too often in one's experience: “It's the story of my life,” my mother would say when she returned home from a sale empty-handed. the same old story used to indicate that a particular bad situation is tediously familiar: are we not faced with the same old story of a badly managed project? the story goes it is said or rumored: the story goes that he's fallen out with his friends. to make (or British cut) a long story short used to end an account of events quickly: to make a long story short, I married Stephen.ORIGIN Middle English (denoting a historical account or representation): shortening of Anglo-Norman French estorie, from Latin historia (see history) .
