stray 
BrE streɪ, AmE streɪ 

A.  intransitive verb 
① (wander) 走失 zǒushī the military arrested anyone who strayed into the exclusion zone 军方逮捕了所有误入禁区的人 to stray from the path 偏离道路 
② (move casually) 漫不经心地移动 màn bù jīngxīn de yídòng her eyes kept straying over to the clock on the wall 她的目光不时瞟向墙上的钟 
③ (be distracted) 偏离正题 piānlí zhèngtí to let one's thoughts stray 分心 to stray from [something]/back to [something]; 偏离某事物/失神回想某事 
④ euphemistic (be unfaithful) «husband, wife, partner» 有外遇 yǒu wàiyù 
⑤ formal dated Religion 误入歧途 wù rù qítú to stray from the path of righteousness 偏离正道 
B.  adjectiveattributive 
① (lost) 流浪的 liúlàng de a stray dog/child 流浪狗/流浪儿 
② (isolated, random) 零星的 língxīng de a stray bullet 流弹 there were a few stray passers-by in the empty streets 空荡荡的街上只有寥寥几个行人 a few stray hairs 几根散乱的头发 
C.  noun 
① (domestic animal) 走失的宠物 zǒushī de chǒngwù ; (farm animal) 走失的家畜 zǒushī de jiāchù a home for strays 流浪动物收容所 
② (lost person) 走散者 zǒusànzhě 
stray 
strā

▶verb [no object] move away aimlessly from a group or from the right course or place: I strayed a few blocks in the wrong direction 
dog owners are urged not to allow their dogs to stray 
the military arrested anyone who strayed into the exclusion zone. 
• (of the eyes or a hand) move idly or casually in a specified direction: her eyes strayed to the telephone. 
• (of a person who is married or in a long-term relationship) be unfaithful: men who stray are seen as more exciting and desirable. 
• literary wander or roam in a specified direction: over these mounds the Kurdish shepherd strays. 
▶adjective [attributive]
1 not in the right place; separated from the group or target: he pushed a few stray hairs from her face 
she was killed by a stray bullet. 
• (of a domestic animal) having no home or having wandered away from home: stray dogs.
2 Physics (of a physical quantity) arising as a consequence of the laws of physics, not by deliberate design, and usually having a detrimental effect on the operation or efficiency of equipment: stray capacitance. 
▶noun
1 a stray person or thing, especially a domestic animal.
2 (strays) electrical phenomena interfering with radio reception. DERIVATIVES strayer nounORIGIN Middle English: shortening of Anglo-Norman French and Old French estrayer (verb), Anglo-Norman French strey (noun), partly from astray .
