strain 
BrE streɪn, AmE streɪn 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(pressure on person or relationship) 压力 yālì I found it a strain having to concentrate for so long 我觉得这么长时间全神贯注挺累的 these repayments are putting a strain on our finances 偿还这些债款使我们背负上了财务压力 their marriage is under great strain at the moment 眼下他们的婚姻关系非常紧张 relax, and let us take the strain 你歇一歇，让我们来顶一会儿 
② Uncountable(tense state) 紧张 jǐnzhāng mental/nervous strain 精神/神经紧张 
③ Uncountable and countable(force) 作用力 zuòyònglì the rope broke under the strain 绳子拉断了 don't place too much strain on muscles and joints 不要让肌肉和关节太吃力 
④ Uncountable and countable(injury) 劳损 láosǔn a muscle/thigh strain 肌肉劳损/大腿拉伤 
⑤ Countable(type) 种类 zhǒnglèi a new strain of rice 水稻新品种 this is only one of the many strains of the disease 这种病有许多类型，这只是其中一种 
⑥ Countable(quality) 特性 tèxìng there is a strain of musical talent in the family 这一家人有音乐天赋 a strain of melancholy runs through his poems 他的诗歌当中贯穿着一种忧伤的格调 
⑦ Countableformal (style) 风格 fēnggé to continue to speak in the same strain 用同样的语气往下说 
B.  strains noun plural literary 旋律 xuánlǜ they left the church to the strains of Mendelssohn's Wedding March 他们在门德尔松的《婚礼进行曲》的音乐声中离开了教堂 
C.  transitive verb 
① (injure) 使劳损 shǐ láosǔn to strain a muscle 拉伤肌肉 to strain one's eyes reading by candlelight 因就着烛光看书弄坏眼睛 exercise gently and avoid straining yourself 运动的时候动作要轻柔，以免弄伤自己 
② (exert) 尽力使用 jìnlì shǐyòng to strain one's ears (to hear [something]) 竖起耳朵（听某声响） to strain one's neck (to do [something]) 伸长脖子（做某事） to strain oneself to do [something] 竭尽全力做某事 
③ (make excessive demands on) 使不堪承受 shǐ bù kān chéngshòu to strain relations between two countries 使两国关系紧张起来 to strain [something] to the limit 使某事物达到极限 
④ (stretch) 拉紧 lājǐn the rope was strained to breaking point 绳子快要拉断了 
⑤ (remove liquid from) 过滤 guòlǜ to use a colander to strain the vegetables 把蔬菜放在滤箩里控水 to strain the water from the vegetables 把蔬菜里的水滤掉 
D.  intransitive verb 
① (exert oneself) 尽力 jìnlì if you strain too hard, you'll injure yourself 如果太用力，你会弄伤自己的 I had to strain to hear what they were saying 我得竖起耳朵去听他们在说些什么 he burst to the surface, straining for air 他猛地冒出水面，拼命吸气 
② (pull on) 用力拉 yònglì lā (push against) 用力推 yònglì tuī she strained against the ropes that held her 她使劲想挣脱拴住她的绳子 the bear strained at the chain around its neck 熊使劲拽脖子上的链子 PHRASAL VERB strain off transitive verb[strain something off, strain off something] 滤掉 lǜ diào ‹liquid›she strained the water off (from) the vegetables 她把蔬菜滤干 
strain
1 
strān

▶verb
1 [with object] force (a part of one's body or oneself) to make a strenuous or unusually great effort: I stopped and listened, straining my ears for any sound. 
• injure (a limb, muscle, or organ) by overexerting it or twisting it awkwardly: on cold days you are more likely to strain a muscle 
glare from the screen can strain your eyes. 
• [no object] make a strenuous and continuous effort: his voice was so quiet that I had to strain to hear it. 
• make severe or excessive demands on: he strained her tolerance to the limit. 
• [no object] pull or push forcibly at something: the bear strained at the chain around its neck 
his stomach was swollen, straining against the thin shirt. 
• stretch (something) tightly: the barbed wire fence was strained to posts six feet high. 
• archaic embrace (someone) tightly: she strained the infant to her bosom again.
2 [with object] pour (a mainly liquid substance) through a porous or perforated device or material in order to separate out any solid matter: strain the custard into a bowl. 
• cause liquid to drain off (food that has been boiled, soaked, or canned) by pouring through a perforated device. 
• drain off (liquid) by straining: strain off the surplus fat. 
▶noun
1 a force tending to pull or stretch something to an extreme or damaging degree: the usual type of chair puts an enormous strain on the spine 
aluminum may bend under strain. 
• Physics the magnitude of a deformation, equal to the change in the dimension of a deformed object divided by its original dimension. 
• an injury to a part of the body caused by overexertion or twisting a muscle awkwardly: he has a slight groin strain.
2 a severe or excessive demand on the strength, resources, or abilities of someone or something: the accusations put a strain on relations between the two countries 
she's obviously under considerable strain. 
• a state of tension or exhaustion resulting from this: the telltale signs of nervous strain.
3 (usually strains) the sound of a piece of music as it is played or performed: through the open windows came the strains of a hurdy-gurdy playing in the street. 
PHRASES
at (full) strain archaic using the utmost effort. strain every nerve see nerve. strain at the leash see leash. DERIVATIVES strainable adjectiveORIGIN Middle English (as a verb): from Old French estreindre, from Latin stringere ‘draw tight.’ Current senses of the noun arose in the mid 16th century.
