strap 
BrE strap, AmE stræp 

A.  noun 
① (gen) 带子 dàizi (for holding on to on bus, train) 拉手吊环 lāshou diàohuán a watch with a leather strap 有皮表带的手表 to fasten/undo a strap 系好/解开带子 
② (bandage) 绷带 bēngdài 
③ History (for punishing) 皮鞭 píbiān to give [somebody] the strap 鞭打某人 
B.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -pp-) 
① (secure) 用带子固定 yòng dàizi gùdìng the load needs to be strapped more tightly 货物需要捆得再紧些 he strapped the knife to his leg 他把刀绑到腿上 don't forget to strap the child into the pushchair 别忘了把推车上的安全带给孩子系上 
② (bandage) 用绷带包扎 yòng bēngdài bāozā PHRASAL VERBS strap down transitive verb[strap somebody/something down, strap down somebody/something] 用带子把…固定住 yòng dàizi bǎ… gùdìng zhù everything had to be strapped down to stop it from sliding around 所有东西都必须绑定，免得来回滑动 strap in transitive verb[strap somebody in, strap in somebody] 给…系上安全带 gěi… jìshang ānquándài are you strapped in? 你系好安全带了吗？ strap on transitive verb[strap something on, strap on something] 用带子把…固定 yòng dàizi bǎ… gùdìng to strap a watch on 戴上手表 to strap on skis 穿上滑雪板 strap up transitive verb[strap something up, strap up something] 用绷带包扎 yòng bēngdài bāozā the nurse strapped the wound up 护士把伤口包扎起来 
strap 
strap

▶noun a strip of leather, cloth, or other flexible material, often with a buckle, used to fasten, secure, or carry something or to hold onto something: her bra strap 
the strap of his shoulder bag. 
• a strip of metal, often hinged, used to fasten or secure something. 
• (the strap) punishment by beating with a strip of leather. 
• variant form of strop1. 
▶verb (straps, strapping, strapped)
1 [with object] fasten or secure in a specified place or position with a strap or seat belt: I had to strap the bag to my bicycle 
the children were strapped into their car seats.
2 [with object] beat (someone) with a strip of leather: I expected when my dad walked in that he'd strap him. ORIGIN late 16th century (denoting a trap for birds, also a piece of timber fastening two objects together): dialect form of strop1 .
