strength 
BrE strɛŋθ, strɛŋkθ, AmE strɛŋ(k)θ 
noun 
① Uncountable and countable(physical power) 体力 tǐlì a man of great strength 强壮的男子 she didn’t have the strength to walk any further 她再也走不动了 he has great strength in his arms 他的手臂力气很大 to build up one's strength (by exercise) 增强体力 (after illness) 恢复体力 to summon (up) all one's strength 使出全身力气 to recover or regain one's strength 恢复体力 with all one's strength 用全力 give me strength! colloquial 真受不了！ 
② Uncountable(of natural force) (potency, intensity) 力度 lìdù (speed) 速度 sùdù the wind had markedly increased in strength 风力明显增强了 the strength and direction of the tide 潮水的流速与方向 
③ Uncountable(ability to perform function) (of lens) 光焦度 guāngjiāodù (of electric current) 强度 qiángdù (of bulb) 功率 gōnglǜ 
④ Uncountable(robustness) 结实 jiēshi the strength of a retaining wall 挡土墙的坚固程度 the hook has the strength to withstand the pull 这个钩子经得住拉拽 
⑤ Uncountable and countable(concentration, potency) (of flavouring, drink, solution) 浓度 nóngdù (of drug) 效力 xiàolì add more curry powder depending on the strength required 按所要求的口味轻重再加点咖喱粉 a range of beers with different strengths 各种度数不同的啤酒 
⑥ Uncountable(influence) 实力 shílì economic/military strength 经济/军事实力 to be in a position of strength 处于有利地位 to go from strength to strength 不断取得成功 since her appointment the department has gone from strength to strength 自她上任以来，这个部门越来越兴旺了 
⑦ Uncountable(of currency) 强弱（程度） qiángruò(chéngdù) to gain strength 变得坚挺 
⑧ Uncountable and countable(resolution) 坚强 jiānqiáng to draw strength from one's faith 从信仰中汲取力量 to show great strength of character 表现出很大的毅力 she has (a) remarkable inner strength 她具有非凡的意志力 
⑨ Uncountable(intensity of emotion, opinion, etc.) 强烈程度 qiángliè chéngdù this view has gathered strength 这种观点已为更多人接受了 don't underestimate the strength of feeling about this! 不要低估对这件事的强烈情绪！ 
⑩ Uncountable(effectiveness of protest, influence, performance) 效力 xiàolì 
⑪ Uncountable(noticeability) (of sound, voice, accent) 清晰度 qīngxīdù (of light) 亮度 liàngdù 
⑫ Uncountable(ability to endure) 持久性 chíjiǔxìng the strength of their attachment to each other was obvious to all 他们相互之间深深依恋是大家有目共睹的 
⑬ Uncountable(persuasiveness) 说服力 shuōfúlì to give or lend strength to [something] 使…具有说服力 ‹argument, theory›on the strength of [something] 凭借某事物 I got the job on the strength of his recommendation 由于他的推荐，我得到了那份工作 
⑭ Countable(positive aspect) 优点 yōudiǎn the ability to keep calm is one of her many strengths 能够保持冷静是她的诸多长处之一 the strengths and weaknesses of an argument 论点的有力之处与薄弱之处 
⑮ Uncountable and countable(force of number) 人数多寡 rénshù duōguǎ the strength of the enemy army 敌军的兵力 he is on the strength of the teaching staff 他是在编教师 in strength 大量地 the enemy attacked in strength 敌人投入大批兵力发动进攻 
⑯ Uncountable(total number) 人手 rénshǒu to be up to strength «army, staff, team» 达到所需人数 to bring [something] up to strength 使…达到所需人数 ‹army, staff, team›to be at full strength (have full complement) 人手充足 (use best members) 使用最佳人选 the team will be back at full strength for the next match 下一场比赛，球队将恢复主力阵容 to be below or under strength (lack full complement) 人手不足 (not use best members) 未使用最佳人选 these cuts have left the local police force under strength 这几次人员裁减造成地方警力不足 
strength 
streNG(k)TH

▶noun
1 the quality or state of being strong, in particular: 
• physical power and energy: cycling can help you build up your strength. 
• the emotional or mental qualities necessary in dealing with situations or events that are distressing or difficult: many people find strength in religion 
it takes strength of character to admit one needs help. 
• the capacity of an object or substance to withstand great force or pressure: they were taking no chances with the strength of the retaining wall. 
• the influence or power possessed by a person, organization, or country: the political and military strength of European governments. 
• the degree of intensity of a feeling or belief: street protests demonstrated the strength of feeling against the president. 
• the cogency of an argument or case: the strength of the argument for property taxation. 
• the potency, intensity, or speed of a force or natural agency: the wind had markedly increased in strength. 
• the potency or degree of concentration of a drug, chemical, or drink: it's double the strength of your average beer 
the solution comes in two strengths.
2 a good or beneficial quality or attribute of a person or thing: the strengths and weaknesses of their sales and marketing operation 
his strength was his obsessive single-mindedness. 
• literary a person or thing perceived as a source of mental or emotional support: he was my closest friend, my strength and shield.
3 the number of people comprising a group, typically a team or army: the peacetime strength of the army was 415,000. 
• the number of people required to make a group complete: we are now more than 100 officers below strength 
some units will be maintained at full strength while others will rely on reserves 
[in combination] : an under-strength side. 
PHRASES
from strength from a secure or advantageous position: it makes sense to negotiate from strength. go from strength to strength develop or progress with increasing success. in strength in large numbers: security forces were out in strength. on the strength of on the basis or with the justification of: she got into Princeton on the strength of her essays. tower (or pillar) of strength a person who can be relied upon to give a great deal of support and comfort to others.DERIVATIVES strengthless 
ˈstreNG(k)THləs 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English strengthu, from the Germanic base of strong .
