stream 
BrE striːm, AmE strim 
A. noun 
① (small river) 溪流 xīliú a mountain/an underground stream 山涧/地下溪流 a trout stream 有鳟鱼的小河 
② (flow, moving mass) 涌流 yǒngliú a stream of blood 一股鲜血 a stream of smoke/light 一缕烟/一道光 to flow in a steady stream 源源不断地流出 I’ve had a steady stream of visitors 我这里不断有客人来 cars filed past in an endless stream 过往汽车一辆接着一辆，川流不息 
③ (series) 一连串 yīliánchuàn a constant stream of enquiries 接连不断的询问 a steady stream of work 接二连三的工作 to hurl a stream of abuse (at [somebody]) 不停地辱骂（某人） 
④ (current) 水流 shuǐliú the river is high, and the stream is strong 河流水位很高，水流很急 against/with the stream 逆流/顺流的 figurative 逆潮流/顺应潮流的 nì cháoliú/shùnyìng cháoliú de to swim with the stream 顺流游泳 figurative 顺应潮流 shùnyìng cháoliú on stream (in operation) 在运转中 (in existence) 存在的 the new computer system comes on stream next month 新的电脑系统下月投入使用 more jobs are coming on stream 更多的工作不断涌现 
⑤ especially BrE School 学生小组 xuésheng xiǎozǔ [由相同年龄和能力的学生组成]the fast stream 快班 
⑥ Computing 数据流 shùjùliú 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (flow) 流动 liúdòng tears streamed down her cheeks 泪水顺着她的面颊流下 black smoke streamed from the exhaust 排气管里冒出黑烟 sunlight streamed through the windows 阳光洒入窗户 
② (move) 涌动 yǒngdòng people streamed across the bridge 桥上行人川流不息 the audience streamed out of the concert hall 观众涌出了音乐厅 
③ (be wet) 流淌 liútǎng his face was streaming with sweat 他脸上汗水直流 her head was streaming with blood 她头上在流血 the walls were streaming with condensation 墙壁上有冷凝的水流下来 the cold wind made his eyes stream 寒风吹得他的眼睛流泪 pollen makes his nose stream 花粉使他的鼻子流涕 
④ (float, wave) (in wind) 飘扬 piāoyáng (in water) 漂动 piāodòng the banner streamed out behind them 旗帜在他们身后飘扬 
C.  transitive verb 
① (produce flow of) 流出 liúchū the wound was streaming blood 伤口在流血 the exhaust streamed black smoke 排气管里冒出了黑烟 
② especially BrE School 把…按年龄和能力分组 bǎ… àn niánlíng hé nénglì fēnzǔ ‹students›
③ Computing 流播 liúbō if you visit their website, you can stream the whole album 如果你浏览他们的网站，你可以通过流播在线收听整张唱片 
stream 
▶noun
1 a mountain stream: creek, river, rivulet, rill, runnel, streamlet, freshet; tributary; bourn; brook.
2 a stream of boiling water: jet, flow, rush, gush, surge, torrent, flood, cascade, outpouring, outflow; technical efflux.
3 a steady stream of visitors: succession, flow, series, string.
▶verb
1 tears were streaming down her face: flow, pour, course, run, gush, surge, flood, cascade, spill.
2 children streamed out of the classrooms: pour, surge, charge, flood, swarm, pile, crowd.
3 a flag streamed from the mast: flutter, float, flap, fly, blow, waft, wave.
