stress 
BrE strɛs, AmE strɛs 
A. noun 
① Uncountable(anxious state) 精神压力 jīngshén yālì to be under/suffer from stress 在压力下/有精神压力 emotional/mental/nervous stress 感情负担/思想负担/精神压力 
② Countable(factor causing anxiety) 紧张 jǐnzhāng we needed time to rest and relax after the stresses of the journey 经历了旅途的紧张劳累，我们需要时间休息和放松 the stresses and strains of modern life 现代生活的紧张和压力 
③ Uncountable and countable(physical pressure) 压力 yālì to put or impose stress on [something] 给某物加压 to be under stress 受到应力 a stress of 500 kg 500千克的压力 
④ Uncountable(emphasis) 强调 qiángdiào she lays or puts or places stress on punctuality 她非常注重守时 a great deal of stress has been laid on this fact 这个事实已经得到了极大重视 
⑤ Uncountable and countableLinguistics 重音 zhòngyīn to put or place the stress on [something] 把重音放在某音节上 in ‘strategic’the stress falls on the second syllable “strategic”一词的重音在第二个音节上 
B.  transitive verb 
① (emphasize) 强调 qiángdiào to stress the importance of [something] 强调某事物的重要性 it must be stressed that this disease is very rare 必须着重指出，这种病很罕见 ‘I want it done very neatly,’she stressed 她强调说，“我希望这件事做得非常干净利落” 
② Linguistics 重读 zhòngdú the final syllable is stressed 最后一个音节要重读 
③ (put physical pressure on) 施压于 shī yā yú this type of workout stresses the knee joints 这种锻炼增加膝关节的压力 
④ colloquial (make anxious) 使焦虑不安 shǐ jiāolǜ bù'ān driving in cities really stresses me 在市内开车让我非常紧张 
C.  intransitive verb colloquial 担心 dānxīn stop stressing about your exams 别再担心考试了 PHRASAL VERB stress out colloquial A. transitive verb[stress somebody out] 使非常焦虑 shǐ fēicháng jiāolǜ travelling always stressed him out 旅行总是让他非常紧张 
B.  intransitive verb 感到非常焦虑 gǎndào fēicháng jiāolǜ he's stressing out about being unemployed 他十分担心失业 
stress 
▶noun
1 he's under a lot of stress: strain, pressure, (nervous) tension, worry, anxiety, trouble, difficulty; informal hassle.
2 laying greater stress on education: emphasis, importance, weight.
3 the stress falls on the first syllable: emphasis, accent, accentuation; beat; Prosody ictus.
4 the stress is uniform across the bar: pressure, tension, strain.
▶verb
1 they stressed the need for reform: emphasize, draw attention to, underline, underscore, point up, place emphasis on, lay stress on, highlight, accentuate, press home. ANTONYMS play down.
2 the last syllable is stressed: place the emphasis on, emphasize, place the accent on.
3 all the staff were stressed: overstretch, overtax, push to the limit, pressure, make tense, worry, harass; informal hassle.
