stretch 
BrE strɛtʃ, AmE strɛtʃ 
A. transitive verb 
① (make bigger) 撑大 chēngdà ‹shoe, garment›; 拉长 lācháng ‹spring, rubber, dough›don't hang your woollens out on the line or you'll stretch them 不要把羊毛衫挂在绳子上，否则会把它撑大的 
② (pull tight) 拉紧 lājǐn ‹rope, cord, bowstring, elastic›; 绷紧 bēngjǐn ‹canvas, tarpaulin›; 铺开 pūkāi ‹net, fabric›to stretch [something] across [something]; 将某物在某物上铺开 to stretch [something] on or over [something]; 把某物绷紧到某物上 to stretch [something] tight 拉紧某物 
③ (straighten) «person, animal» 舒展 shūzhǎn ‹limb, neck›to stretch one's legs colloquial (go for walk) 散散步 the bird stretched its wings 这只鸟张开了翅膀 to stretch one's wings figurative 进行新的尝试 
④ (push bounds of) 耗尽 hàojìn ‹budget, resources›; 超越…的界限 chāoyuè… de jièxiàn ‹tolerance›the ending really stretches the audience's credulity 这个结局实在让观众难以相信 you're stretching my patience! 你让我忍无可忍！ to be fully stretched «person» 竭尽全力 «company» 倾尽所能 qīngjǐn suǒ néng to stretch [something] to the limit 把某物消耗殆尽 
⑤ (cause to do one's best) 使…竭尽全力 shǐ… jiéjìn quánlì ‹person›; 尽力发挥 jìnlì fāhuī ‹abilities›she isn't stretched at school 她在学校里并未被发掘出所有潜力 
⑥ (exaggerate) 夸大 kuādà ‹meaning›to stretch the truth 言过其实 to be stretching it a bit or a little colloquial 有点夸张 
⑦ (make exception to) 变通 biàntōng ‹rules›to stretch a point (make exception) 破例 (exaggerate) 夸大 kuādà 
⑧ (cause to go further) 节约使用 jiéyuē shǐyòng ‹budget, income, supplies›; 节约地吃 jiéyuē de chī ‹meal›
⑨ (increase) 扩充 kuòchōng ‹record, total›they stretched their lead to 5-0 他们把领先优势扩大到了5比0 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (become bigger) «spring, elastic, rubber» 被拉长 bèi lācháng this fabric stretches 这种布料富有弹性 
② (become too big) «garment, fabric» 被撑大 bèi chēngdà 
③ (straighten body when exercising) 舒展肢体 shūzhǎn zhītǐ he stretched and yawned 他伸了个懒腰，打了个哈欠 
④ (reach out arm) 伸长胳膊 shēncháng gēbo (reach out leg) 伸出腿 shēnchū tuǐ to stretch across or over [something]; 把手伸过某物 he stretched across and could just touch the other wall with his fingertips 他伸出手去，指尖刚刚能碰到另一面墙 to stretch for [something]; 伸手去够某物 to stretch over; 伸手过来 to stretch up; 向上伸胳膊 
⑤ (continue in space) 延伸 yánshēn how far does the traffic jam stretch? 交通拥堵到多远？ to stretch to or as far as [something]; «flex, traffic jam, queue» 延伸到某物 to stretch from [something] to [something]; 从某物延伸到某物 his grin stretched from ear to ear 他笑得合不拢嘴 to stretch down to [something]; 一直延伸到某物 to stretch into [something]; 延伸入某物 mountains stretched away into the distance 山峦绵延伸向远方 to stretch for miles; 延伸数英里 to stretch over [something]; 在某物之上延伸 at that time the empire stretched over most of Europe 那时候，该帝国的领土覆盖了欧洲的大部分区域 to stretch around [something]; 环绕某物延伸 
⑥ (continue in time) 延续 yánxù the weeks stretched into months 几周的时间延续成了几个月 to stretch over; «festivities, course, talks, work» 延续 yánxù ‹week, fortnight, month›
⑦ (be enough) «food, supplies, budget» 够用 gòu yòng the budget won't stretch to a new computer 这个数目的预算不够买一台新电脑 
C.  reflexive verbto stretch oneself 
① (straighten body) 舒展身体 shūzhǎn shēntǐ 
② (try one's best) 全力以赴 quánlì yǐ fù 
D.  noun 
① Countable(narrow area of land, water) 一段 yī duàn an unspoilt stretch of coastline 一段未遭破坏的海岸线 a dangerous stretch of road 危险的路段 
② Countable(expanse of land, water) 一片 yī piàn a stretch of open country 一片开阔地区 
③ Countable(period) 一段时间 yī duàn shíjiān a short stretch 一小段时间 a long stretch 很长一段时间 they worked in four-hour stretches 他们工作每4小时一班 to work for a stretch 工作一段时间 at a stretch 一口气地 
④ Countablecolloquial (prison sentence) 刑期 xíngqī a five-year stretch 5年的刑期 to do a stretch (for [something]) （因为某事）服刑 
⑤ Uncountable and countable(act of tightening muscles) 伸展 shēnzhǎn to do a stretch or some stretches 做伸展运动 to have a (good) stretch （好好）舒展身体 to give [something] a stretch 伸展一下 ‹arm, leg, neck, back›at full stretch 尽量伸展四肢 figurative 竭尽全力地 jiéjìn quánlì de I was at full stretch, but the lever was still just out of reach 我尽力伸展手臂，但还是够不着操作杆 we're at full stretch already and cannot possibly cope with more orders 我们已经尽了全力，不可能再处理更多的订单了 at a stretch (with difficulty) 勉强地 (in extreme circumstances) 在极端情况下 not by any or by no stretch of the imagination 任凭如何想象也不 
⑥ Uncountable and countable(pull) 拉紧 lājǐn to give [something] a stretch 拉一下 ‹rope› 撑一下 chēng yīxià ‹shoe›to be at full stretch «rope» 拉紧 lājǐn «cord, bowstring» 绷紧 bēngjǐn 
⑦ Uncountable(elasticity) 弹性 tánxìng stretch material 弹性材料 a pair of stretch jeans 一条弹力牛仔裤 
⑧ Countableusually singular especially AmE (straight) 终点直道 zhōngdiǎn zhídào the home or finishing or final stretch 终点直道 zhōngdiǎn zhídào figurative 最后阶段 zuìhòu jiēduàn the campaign has entered its final stretch 竞选进入了最后冲刺阶段 to be on the home or finishing or final stretch 接近终点 figurative 将要完成 jiāngyào wánchéng PHRASAL VERBS stretch back intransitive verb 
① (in time) 回溯 huísù this tradition stretches back (for) centuries 这个传统可以回溯到几个世纪前 to stretch back to [somebody]/[something]; 回溯到某人/某事物 
② (in space) 往后延伸 wǎng hòu yánshēn to stretch back to [something]; 向后延伸至某物 the traffic jam stretches back to the motorway 交通拥堵的车流到了高速公路 stretch out A. intransitive verb 
① (lie down) 躺下 tǎngxia to stretch out on [something]/in front of [something]; 躺在某物上/在某物的前面 
② (continue in space) 延伸 yánshēn fields and hills stretched out as far as the eye could see 田野和山峦向远方延伸至视野所及之处 the woods seem to stretch out to the horizon 森林似乎一直延伸到了地平线的尽头 
③ (continue in time) «life, future, days» 延续 yánxù the moment seemed to stretch out endlessly 那一刻似乎无休无止 
B.  transitive verb[stretch something out, stretch out something] 
① (reach out) 伸出 shēnchū ‹leg, foot›to stretch out one's hand/arm towards [somebody]/[something]; 朝某人/某物伸出手/手臂 he stretched out his hand to the telephone 他伸手去拿电话 I stretched out my hand to grasp hers 我伸手去握她的手 
② to be stretched out (be lying down) 躺下 tǎngxia to be stretched out on the bed/floor; 躺在床上/地板上 tǎng zài chuáng shang/dìbǎn shang to be stretched out in front of the TV/the fire 躺在电视机/火堆前 tǎng zài diànshìjī/huǒduī qián to lie stretched out 四肢伸展地躺着 sìzhī shēnzhǎn de tǎngzhe 
③ (pull tight) 拉紧 lājǐn ‹rope, cord, bowstring›; 绷紧 bēngjǐn ‹canvas, tarpaulin›; 铺开 pūkāi ‹net, sheet, fabric›they stretch out the hides and leave them in the sun to dry 他们把兽皮铺开，放在太阳底下晒干 
④ (prolong) 延长 yáncháng ‹plot, meeting, work›he tried to stretch out the script with two extra scenes 他试图多加两幕剧来拖长这剧本 I stretched my speech out to an hour 我把演说延长至一小时 
C.  reflexive verb to stretch oneself out 躺下 tǎngxia to stretch oneself out on [something]; 躺在某物上 tǎng zài mǒu wù shang 
stretch 
▶verb
1 this material stretches: be elastic, be stretchy, be tensile.
2 he stretched the elastic: pull (out), draw out, extend, lengthen, elongate, expand.
3 stretch your weekend into a vacation: prolong, lengthen, make longer, extend, spin out. ANTONYMS shorten.
4 my budget won't stretch to a new car: be sufficient for, be enough for, cover; afford, have the money for.
5 the court case stretched their finances: put a strain on, overtax, overextend, drain, sap.
6 stretching the truth: bend, strain, distort, exaggerate, embellish.
7 she stretched out her hand to him: reach out, hold out, extend, outstretch, proffer; literary outreach. ANTONYMS withdraw.
8 he stretched his arms: extend, straighten (out).
9 she stretched out on the sofa: lie down, recline, lean back, be recumbent, sprawl, lounge, loll.
10 the desert stretches for miles: extend, spread, continue.
▶noun
1 magnificent stretches of forest: expanse, area, tract, belt, sweep, extent.
2 a four-hour stretch: period, time, spell, run, stint, session, shift.
3 informal a ten-year stretch: (prison) sentence, (prison) term, stint, rap.
▶adjective stretch fabrics: stretchy, stretchable, elastic.
