string 
BrE strɪŋ, AmE strɪŋ 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(twine) 细绳 xì shéng a ball/piece/length of string 一团/一根/一段细绳 to tie [something] (up) with string 用细绳捆扎某物 the key is hanging on a string by the door 钥匙挂在门边的绳子上 to untie or undo a string 解开细绳 how long is a piece of string? BrE colloquial 谁能说得准呢？ 
② Countable(on musical instrument, racket, bow) 弦 xián to tune the strings (on [something]) （给某乐器）调弦 
③ Countable(on puppet) 牵线 qiānxiàn a puppet on strings 牵线木偶 qiānxiàn mù'ǒu to pull strings (for [somebody]) colloquial （为某人）走后门 to pull the strings 提拉牵线 figurative colloquial 幕后操纵 mùhòu cāozòng 
④ Countable(fastening on clothing or headgear, cord around neck) 带子 dàizi the strings of a bonnet 女帽的帽带 a medallion on a string 挂在带子上的大奖章 
⑤ Countable(set of things joined together) 一串 yī chuàn a string of pearls 一串珍珠 the molecules join together to form long strings 分子连接在一起形成长串 
⑥ Countable(succession) 一连串 yīliánchuàn a string of obscenities/hits 一连串的脏话/接二连三的成功 
⑦ Countable(group) 一批 yī pī he owns a string of racing stables 他有好多个赛马训练场 a string of racehorses ［在同一训练场里训练的] 一群赛马 
⑧ Countable(line) 一排 yī pái a string of islands in the Pacific 太平洋中的岛链 
⑨ CountableComputing (of characters) 字符串 zìfúchuàn (of other data) 信息串 xìnxīchuàn a character/numeric string 字符串/数字串 
⑩ usually plural Countable(condition) 附加条件 fùjiā tiáojiàn without or (with) no strings (attached) 没有附加条件 
⑪ CountableLinguistics 语符列 yǔfúliè 
B.  strings noun plural Music the strings (instruments) 弦乐器 xiányuèqì (players) 弦乐器演奏者 xiányuèqì yǎnzòuzhě the strings section 弦乐器组 
C.  transitive verb(past tense, past participle strung) 
① (hang) 悬挂 xuánguà fairy lights were strung on trees 树上挂着彩色小灯 the route was strung with flags 沿途悬挂着旗子 
② (fit with stretched wire, nylon, etc.) 给…装弦 gěi… zhuāng xián ‹musical instrument, bow›; 给…绷线 gěi… bēng xiàn ‹racket›
③ (thread) 把…串起来 bǎ… chuàn qilai the jeweller was stringing pearls on a nylon cord 珠宝匠正在往一根尼龙绳上串珍珠 
D.  intransitive verb (past tense, past participle strung) colloquial 充当报料人 chōngdāng bàoliàorén to string for a newspaper 为报纸充当报料人 PHRASAL VERBS string along colloquial 
A.  intransitive verb BrE 跟随 gēnsuí is it OK if we string along? 我们跟着来可以吗？ to string along with [somebody]; 伴随某人 
B.  transitive verb [string somebody along, string along somebody] 耍弄 shuǎnòng he had no plans to marry her: he was just stringing her along 他根本没打算娶她：不过是跟她玩玩 string out 
A.  transitive verb 
① [string something out, string out something] (prolong) 延长 yáncháng they seem determined to string the talks out for an indefinite period 他们似乎一心要把谈判无限期地拖下去 
② (set at intervals) 间隔排列 jiàngé páiliè warning notices were strung out along the motorway 高速公路上每隔一段距离就有一个警示牌 
B.  [string somebody/something out, string out somebody/something] transitive verb (spread out) 使间隔排开 shǐ jiàngé páikāi forty soldiers were strung out in a line 40名士兵拉开排成一排 
C.  intransitive verb 分成一列 fēnchéng yī liè don't bunch up: string out at intervals of 30 metres 不要挤在一起：按30米的间隔排开 string together transitive verb[string something together, string together something] 
① (combine articulately) 将…联结成句 jiāng… liánjié chéngjù I can just manage to string a few words together in French 我的法语只能把几个单词拼凑成句 
② (add one after another) 把…连在一起 bǎ… lián zài yīqǐ they strung together seven or eight passes 他们一连传了七八次球 
③ (form by combining articulately) 联成 liánchéng to string a sentence together 造句 
④ (form by adding) 串联成 chuànlián chéng the band strung together a great set 乐队连续演奏了一组动听的乐曲 string up transitive verb 
① [string something up, string up something] (hang up) 悬挂 xuánguà lanterns were strung up in the trees 树上挂着灯笼 
② [string somebody up, string up somebody] colloquial (kill by hanging) 吊死 diàosǐ 
string 
striNG

▶noun
1 material consisting of threads of cotton, hemp, or other material twisted together to form a thin length. 
• a piece of string used to tie around or attach to something. 
• a piece of catgut or similar material interwoven with others to form the head of a sports racket. 
• a length of catgut or wire on a musical instrument, producing a note by vibration. 
• (strings) the stringed instruments in an orchestra. 
• [as modifier] relating to or consisting of stringed instruments: a string quartet.
2 a set of things tied or threaded together on a thin cord: she wore a string of agates around her throat. 
• a sequence of similar items or events: a string of burglaries. 
• Computing a linear sequence of characters, words, or other data. 
• a group of racehorses trained at one stable. 
• a team or player holding a specified position in an order of preference: Gary was first string on the varsity football team.
3 a tough piece of fiber in vegetables, meat, or other food, such as a tough elongated piece connecting the two halves of a bean pod.
4 short for stringboard.
5 a hypothetical one-dimensional subatomic particle having the dynamical properties of a flexible loop. 
• (also cosmic string) (in cosmology) a hypothetical threadlike concentration of energy within the structure of space-time. 
▶verb (past and past participle strung 
strəNG
)
1 [with object] hang (something) so that it stretches in a long line: lights were strung across the promenade. 
• thread (a series of small objects) on a string: he collected stones with holes in them and strung them on a strong cord. 
• (be strung) be arranged in a long line: the houses were strung along the road. 
• (string something together) add items to one another to form a series or coherent whole: he can't string two sentences together.
2 [with object] fit a string or strings to (a musical instrument, a racket, or a bow): the harp had been newly strung.
3 [with object] remove the strings from (a bean).
4 British Billiards another term for lag1 ( sense
2 of the verb). 
PHRASES
no strings attached informal used to show that an offer or opportunity carries no special conditions or restrictions. on a string under one's control or influence: I've got the world on a string.PHRASAL VERBS string along informal stay with or accompany a person or group casually or as long as it is convenient. string someone along informal mislead someone deliberately over a length of time, especially about one's intentions: she had no plans to marry him—she was just stringing him along. string something out cause something to stretch out; prolong something. 
• (string out) stretch out into a long line: the runners string out in a line across the road. 
• (be strung out) be nervous or tense: I often felt strung out by daily stresses. 
• (be strung out) North American be under the influence of alcohol or drugs: he died, strung out on booze and cocaine. string someone/something up hang something up on strings. 
• kill someone by hanging.DERIVATIVES stringless adjective. stringlike 
-ˌlīk 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English streng (noun), of Germanic origin; related to German Strang, also to strong. The verb (dating from late Middle English) is first recorded in the senses ‘arrange in a row’ and ‘fit with a string.’
