stride 
BrE strʌɪd, AmE straɪd 

A.  noun 
① Countable(long step) 大步 dà bù to cross a room in two strides 两大步跨过房间 to take [something] in one's stride 从容应对某事 to make great strides in [something] 在某事上取得巨大进步 
② Uncountable(gait) 步态 bùtài he has a long stride 他步幅很大 to lengthen one's stride 加大步伐 to get into one's stride literal 跟上步调 figurative 进入状态 jìnrù zhuàngtài after a nervous start, the speaker was now getting into his stride 演讲者开始有点儿紧张，现在比较从容了 
B.  intransitive verb(past tense strode, past participle stridden) 
① (walk) 阔步行走 kuòbù xíngzǒu 
② (straddle) 跨越 kuàyuè to stride over or across [something]; 跨过某物 
C.  transitive verb (past tense strode, past participle stridden) 大步走过 dà bù zǒuguo ‹distance›
stride 
strīd

▶verb (past strode 
strōd
; past participle stridden 
ˈstridn
)
1 [no object] walk with long, decisive steps in a specified direction: he strode across the road 
figurative : striding confidently toward the future. 
• [with object] walk about or along (a street or other place) with long, decisive steps: a woman striding the cobbled streets.
2 [no object] (stride across/over) cross (an obstacle) with one long step: by giving a little leap she could stride across like a grown-up. 
• [with object] literary bestride: new wealth enabled Britain to stride the world once more. 
▶noun
1 a long, decisive step: he crossed the room in a couple of strides. 
• [in singular] the length of a step or manner of taking steps in walking or running: the horse shortened its stride 
he followed her with an easy stride.
2 (usually strides) a step or stage in progress toward an aim: great strides have been made toward equality. 
• (one's stride) a good or regular rate of progress, especially after a slow or hesitant start: after months of ineffective campaigning, he seems to have hit his stride.
3 [as modifier] denoting or relating to a rhythmic style of jazz piano playing in which the left hand alternately plays single bass notes on the downbeat and chords an octave higher on the upbeat: a stride pianist. 
PHRASES
break (one's) stride slow or interrupt the pace at which one walks or moves. match someone stride for stride manage to keep up with a competitor. take something in (one's) stride deal with something difficult or unpleasant in a calm and accepting way: we took each new disease in stride.DERIVATIVES strider nounORIGIN Old English stride (noun) ‘single long step,’ strīdan (verb) ‘stand or walk with the legs wide apart,’ probably from a Germanic base meaning ‘strive, quarrel’; related to Dutch strijden ‘fight’ and German streiten ‘quarrel.’
