stroke 
BrE strəʊk, AmE stroʊk 

A.  noun 
① (blow) 一击 yī jī he cut the rope with a stroke of his sword 他一剑劈断了绳子 he was given
20 strokes of the cane 他挨了20下笞杖 
② Sport (hit) 击球 jīqiú a forehand/backhand stroke 正手/反手击球 
③ (scoring unit in golf) 杆数 gānshù to have a 3-stroke lead 领先3杆 to win by
2 strokes 以少于对手2杆的成绩获胜 
④ (swimming movement) 划水动作 huáshuǐ dòngzuò ; (swimming style) 游泳姿势 yóuyǒng zīshì she took a few more strokes to reach the bank 她又划了几下，游到了岸边 
⑤ (rowing movement) 划桨动作 huájiǎng dòngzuò a few more strokes and they would be across the finishing line 再划几桨，他们就可以越过终点线了 to put [somebody] off their stroke (upset timing of) 打乱某人的节奏 BrE (disconcert) 使某人乱了方寸 shǐ mǒu rén luànle fāngcùn 
⑥ (rower) 尾桨手 wěijiǎngshǒu 
⑦ usually singular especially BrE (caress) 抚摸 fǔmō to give [somebody]/[something] a stroke 抚摸一下某人/某物 
⑧ (move, accomplishment) 举动 jǔdòng a bold stroke 大胆的举措 at one or a (single) stroke 一下子 they threatened to cancel the whole project at a stroke 他们威胁要一举砍掉整个项目 she never does a stroke (of work) 她一向什么（活儿）都不干 
⑨ (occurrence) 一次 yī cì a stroke of bad/good luck 背运/好运 by a stroke of fortune 幸运地 
⑩ (idea) 主意 zhǔyi your idea was a stroke of genius 你的主意很高明 
⑪ (mark, movement leaving mark) 一笔 yī bǐ the paint had been applied in careful strokes 油漆已经仔细地刷好了 he finished the portrait with no more than a few strokes 他寥寥几笔就画好了肖像 at the stroke of a pen 大笔一挥 
⑫ BrE (slash) 斜线 xiéxiàn the reference number is five three seven stroke six 编号是537/6 his secretary stroke PA 他的秘书兼私人助理 
⑬ (time signal) [报时的] 钟声 zhōngshēng on the stroke of five 在5点整 at the stroke of midnight 午夜的钟声敲响时 
⑭ Medicine 中风 zhòngfēng to have or suffer a stroke 患中风 a stroke patient 中风病人 
⑮ Technology (of engine, pump) 冲程 chōngchéng a 2-stroke engine 二冲程发动机 
B.  transitive verb 
① especially BrE (pet, caress) 抚摸 fǔmō he’s a beautiful dog; can I stroke him? 这条狗真漂亮，我可以摸一摸吗？ he stroked his beard, wondering what to do next 他捋着胡须，想着接下来该做什么 
② (kick ball smoothly) 踢 tī ; (hit ball smoothly) 击 jī 
③ (move gently) 轻拂 qīngfú she stroked away his tears 她轻轻拭去他的泪水 
④ especially AmE colloquial (flatter) 奉承 fèngcheng I knew how to stroke his ego 我知道该如何满足他的虚荣心 
stroke 
strōk

▶noun
1 an act of hitting or striking someone or something; a blow: he received three strokes of the cane. 
• a method of striking the ball in sports or games. 
• Golf an act of hitting the ball with a club, as a unit of scoring: won by two strokes. 
• the sound made by a striking clock.
2 an act of moving one's hand or an object across a surface, applying gentle pressure: massage the cream into your skin using light upward strokes. 
• a mark made by drawing a pen, pencil, or paintbrush in one direction across paper or canvas: the paint had been applied in careful, regular strokes. 
• a line forming part of a written or printed character. 
• a short printed or written diagonal line typically separating characters or figures.
3 a movement, especially one of a series, in which something moves out of its position and back into it; a beat: the ray swam with effortless strokes of its huge wings. 
• the whole motion of a piston in either direction. 
• the rhythm to which a series of repeated movements is performed: the rowers sing to keep their stroke. 
• a movement of the arms and legs forming one of a series in swimming. 
• style of moving the arms and legs in swimming: front crawl is a popular stroke. 
• (in rowing) the mode or action of moving the oar. 
• (also stroke oar) the oar or oarsman nearest the stern of a boat, setting the timing for the other rowers.
4 a sudden disabling attack or loss of consciousness caused by an interruption in the flow of blood to the brain, especially through thrombosis. 
▶verb [with object]
1 move one's hand with gentle pressure over (a surface, especially hair, fur, or skin), typically repeatedly; caress: he put his hand on her hair and stroked it. 
• apply (something) to a surface using a gentle movement: she strokes blue eyeshadow on her eyelids. 
• North American informal reassure or flatter (someone), especially in order to gain their cooperation: production executives were expert at stroking stars and brokering talent.
2 act as the stroke of (a boat or crew): he stroked Penn's rowing eight to victory.
3 hit or kick (a ball) smoothly and deliberately: Miller calmly stroked three-pointers throughout the tournament. 
• score (a run or point) by hitting or kicking a ball smoothly: the senior stroked a two-run single. 
PHRASES
at a (or one) stroke by a single action having immediate effect: attitudes cannot be changed at one stroke. not (or never) do a stroke of work do no work at all. on the stroke of —— precisely at the specified time: he arrived on the stroke of two. put someone off their stroke disconcert someone so that they do not work or perform as well as they might; break the pattern or rhythm of someone's work. stroke of business a profitable transaction. stroke of genius an outstandingly brilliant and original idea. stroke of luck (or good luck) a fortunate occurrence that could not have been predicted or expected.ORIGIN Old English strācian ‘caress lightly,’ of Germanic origin; related to Dutch streek ‘a stroke,’ German streichen ‘to stroke,’ also to strike. The earliest noun sense ‘blow’ is first recorded in Middle English.
