study 
BrE ˈstʌdi, AmE ˈstədi 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(gaining of knowledge) 学习 xuéxí I don't have a lot of time for study 我可以用来学习的时间不多 a study period 自习时间 a study room 学习室 
② Countable(book) 专著 zhuānzhù (article) 论文 lùnwén a study of Jane Austen's novels 简奥斯丁小说的研究专著 
③ Countable and uncountable(piece of research) 研究 yánjiū to make a study of [something] 研究某事物 studies on animal behaviour 对动物行为的研究 the matter is under study 此事正在研究中 
④ Countable(room) 书房 shūfáng 
⑤ CountableArt 习作 xízuò 
⑥ CountableMusic 练习曲 liànxíqǔ 
⑦ Countable(embodiment) 化身 huàshēn (good example) 典型 diǎnxíng she was a study in calm 她一副镇定自若的神情 the whole affair is a study in managerial incompetence 整个事件充分证明了管理层的无能 
B.  studies noun plural 
① plus plural verb (academic activity) 学业 xuéyè 
② plus singular verb (subject) 课程 kèchéng Celtic studies 凯尔特语研究 
C.  transitive verb 
① (learn about) 学习 xuéxí ‹subject›; (take course in) 攻读 gōngdú ‹subject, language, engineering›I've never studied local history 我从来没学过地方史 
② (investigate, consider) 研究 yánjiū she's studying how animals communicate 她正在研究动物如何交流 it's a question that hasn't been studied 这个问题还未研究 
③ (examine) 细看 xì kàn ‹map, menu, photograph, features›
D.  intransitive verb 
① (learn) 学习 xuéxí (revise) 复习 fùxí I didn't study much over the vacation 假期里我花在学习上的时间不多 to study for an exam 复习备考 
② (take course) 攻读 gōngdú to study for [something]; 攻读某科目 to study under [somebody]; 在某人指导下学习 to study to be an engineer 读工程学 
study 
ˈstədē

▶noun (plural studies)
1 the devotion of time and attention to acquiring knowledge on an academic subject, especially by means of books: the study of English 
an application to continue full-time study. 
• (studies) study as pursued by one person: some students may not be able to resume their studies. 
• an academic book or article on a particular topic: a study of Jane Austen's novels. 
• (studies) used in the title of an academic subject: a major in East Asian studies.
2 a detailed investigation and analysis of a subject or situation: a study of a sample of 5,000 children 
the study of global problems. 
• a portrayal in literature or another art form of an aspect of behavior or character: a study of a man devoured by awareness of his own mediocrity. 
• archaic a thing that is or deserves to be investigated; the subject of an individual's study: I have made it my study to examine the nature and character of the Indians. 
• archaic the object or aim of someone's endeavors: the acquisition of a fortune is the study of all. 
• [with adjective] a person who learns a skill or acquires knowledge at a specified speed: I'm a quick study. [originally theatrical slang, referring to an actor who memorizes a role.]
3 a room used or designed for reading, writing, or academic work.
4 a piece of work, especially a drawing, done for practice or as an experiment. 
• a musical composition designed to develop a player's technical skill.
5 (a study in) a thing or person that is an embodiment or good example of something: he perched on the edge of the bed, a study in confusion and misery. 
• informal an amusing or remarkable thing or person: Ira's face was a study as he approached the car. 
▶verb (studies, studying, studied) [with object]
1 devote time and attention to acquiring knowledge on (an academic subject), especially by means of books: she studied biology and botany. 
• investigate and analyze (a subject or situation) in detail: he has been studying mink for many years. 
• [no object] apply oneself to study: he spent his time listening to the radio rather than studying. 
• [no object] acquire academic knowledge at an educational establishment: he studied at the Kensington School of Art. 
• [no object] (study up) US learn intensively about something, especially in preparation for a test of knowledge: a graduate student studies up for her doctoral exams. 
• (of an actor) try to learn (the words of one's role). 
• West Indian give serious thought or consideration to: the people here don't make so much noise, so you will find that the government doesn't have us to study.
2 look at closely in order to observe or read: she bent her head to study the plans.
3 archaic make an effort to achieve (a result) or take into account (a person or their wishes): with no husband to study, housekeeping is mere play. 
PHRASES
in a brown study absorbed in one's thoughts. [apparently originally from brown in the sense ‘gloomy.’]ORIGIN Middle English: shortening of Old French estudie (noun), estudier (verb), both based on Latin studium ‘zeal, painstaking application.’
