style 
BrE stʌɪl, AmE staɪl 

A.  noun 
① Countable and uncountable(manner) 方式 fāngshì a style of living 生活方式 different teaching styles 不同的教学方式 a style of swimming, a swimming style 泳姿 that's the style! 就该那样做！ 
② Countable(design of object) 样式 yàngshì (clothing design) 款式 kuǎnshì various styles of carpet 各种式样的地毯 our fireplaces come in several styles 我们有多种款式的壁炉 shoes in the latest style 最新款式的鞋 
③ Countable(hairstyle) 发型 fàxíng 
④ Uncountable(fashionableness) 时尚 shíshàng short skirts are back in style 短裙又流行起来了 
⑤ Uncountable(elegance) 风度 fēngdù to do everything with style and grace 事事做得优雅得体 in style 有气派地 she always celebrates her birthday in style 她的生日总是过得很排场 he won the championship in great or fine style 他很风光地赢得了冠军 
⑥ Countable and uncountable(characteristic approach) 风格 fēnggé a building in Gothic style 哥特式建筑 a parody written in the style of Molière 一部模仿莫里哀风格的滑稽喜剧 
⑦ Countable and uncountable(way of writing or speaking) 文体 wéntǐ she writes in a journalistic style 她用新闻体写作 a conversational style 会话体 it’s not considered good style to start a sentence with ‘but’ 人们认为，一个句子用but开头不是好的文法 
⑧ Uncountable(usual way of behaving) 作风 zuòfēng caution was not her style 谨小慎微不是她的风格 I’m surprised he rides a motorbike: I’d have thought cars were more his style 他骑摩托让我很惊讶：我倒认为开车更适合他 
⑨ CountableBotany 花柱 huāzhù 
B.  transitive verb 
① (design) 把…设计成某种式样 bǎ… shèjì chéng mǒu zhǒng shìyàng an elegantly styled jacket 式样高雅的夹克 he's styled the hair of some Hollywood stars 他给几位好莱坞明星设计过发型 
② formal (give title) 任命 rènmìng (give name) 称呼 chēnghu he is styled principal of the university 他被任命为这所大学的校长 should he be styled ‘Mr’or ‘Dr’? 应该称他“先生”还是“博士”？ he styled himself Major Carter 他自称卡特少校 
C.  -style combining form …式样的 … shìyàng de 1950s-style chairs 20世纪50年代款式的椅子 
style 
stīl

▶noun
1 a manner of doing something: different styles of management. 
• a way of painting, writing, composing, building, etc., characteristic of a particular period, place, person, or movement. 
• a way of using language: he never wrote in a journalistic style 
students should pay attention to style and idiom. 
• [usually with negative] a way of behaving or approaching a situation that is characteristic of or favored by a particular person: backing out isn't my style. 
• an official or legal title: the partnership traded under the style of Storr and Mortimer.
2 a distinctive appearance, typically determined by the principles according to which something is designed: the pillars are no exception to the general style. 
• a particular design of clothing. 
• a way of arranging the hair.
3 elegance and sophistication: a sophisticated nightspot with style and taste.
4 a rodlike object or part, in particular: 
• archaic term for stylus ( sense 2). 
• Botany (in a flower) a narrow, typically elongated extension of the ovary, bearing the stigma. 
• Zoology (in an invertebrate) a small slender pointed appendage; a stylet. 
• the gnomon of a sundial. 
▶verb [with object]
1 design or make in a particular form: the yacht is well proportioned and conservatively styled. 
• arrange (hair) in a particular way: he styled her hair by twisting it up to give it body.
2 [with object and complement] designate with a particular name, description, or title: the official is styled principal and vice chancellor of the university. 
PHRASES
in style (or in grand style) in an impressive, grand, or luxurious way.DERIVATIVES styleless 
ˈstīl(l)is 
adjective. stylelessness 
ˈstīl(l)isnis 
noun. styler nounORIGIN Middle English (denoting a stylus, also a literary composition, an official title, or a characteristic manner of literary expression): from Old French stile, from Latin stilus. The verb dates (first sense
2 of the verb) from the early 16th century.
