subject 
A.  /BrE ˈsʌbdʒɛkt, ˈsʌbdʒɪkt, AmE ˈsəbdʒəkt
noun 
① (topic) 主题 zhǔtí to change the subject 换个话题 an article on the subject of space travel 一篇谈论太空旅行的文章 let's just drop the subject 我们别再谈这事儿了 how did we get on to the subject of marriage? 我们怎么谈到婚姻问题上了？ we're getting off the subject 我们跑题了 
② (branch of knowledge) 科目 kēmù French is her best/favourite subject 法语是她成绩最好/最喜欢的科目 
③ Art, Photography 表现对象 biǎoxiàn duìxiàng to focus the camera on the subject 将相机聚焦到拍摄对象上 landscapes were a popular subject with many 18th century painters 风景是18世纪很多画家喜欢的表现题材 
④ (in experiment) 实验对象 shíyàn duìxiàng male subjects between the ages of
18 and 25 18至25岁之间的男性实验对象 
⑤ (focus) 缘由 yuányóu a subject of dispute 争端的起因 he's become a subject for ridicule 他成了别人讥笑讽刺的对象 
⑥ Linguistics 主语 zhǔyǔ 
⑦ (citizen) 臣民 chénmín a British subject 英国国民 
B.  /BrE ˈsʌbdʒɛkt, ˈsʌbdʒɪkt, AmE ˈsəbdʒəkt
adjective 
① predicative (liable) to be subject to [something]; 可能遭受… kěnéng zāoshòu… prices are subject to alteration 价格有可能变动 jiàgé yǒu kěnéng biàndòng 
② predicative (dependent) to be subject to [something]; 取决于某事物 qǔjué yú mǒu shìwù the proposal is subject to approval by the shareholders 提案需经股东批准 
③ predicative (obliged to obey) to be subject to [something]; 受某事物支配 shòu mǒu shìwù zhīpèi the island is not subject to British law 该岛不受英国法律制约 
④ attributive formal (subservient) 臣服的 chénfú de the Greeks were the first subject people to break free from Ottoman rule 希腊人是第一个挣脱奥斯曼帝国统治的民族 
C.  /, /AmE ˈsəbdʒəkt/: subject to preposition phrase 取决于 qǔjué yú subject to the EU's agreement, … 根据欧盟协议，… you will be granted membership, subject to producing certain documents 只要提供一些文件，你就可以成为会员 
D.  /BrE səbˈdʒɛkt, AmE səbˈdʒɛkt
transitive verb formal 使臣服 shǐchén fú to be subjected to bombing/ridicule 遭到轰炸/受到嘲笑 
subject 
▶noun 
ˈsəbjekt 

1 a person or thing that is being discussed, described, or dealt with: I've said all there is to be said on the subject 
he's the subject of a major new biography. 
• a person or circumstance giving rise to a specified feeling, response, or action: the incident was the subject of international condemnation. 
• Grammar a noun phrase functioning as one of the main components of a clause, being the element about which the rest of the clause is predicated. 
• Logic the part of a proposition about which a statement is made. 
• Music a theme of a fugue or of a piece in sonata form; a leading phrase or motif. 
• a person who is the focus of scientific or medical attention or experiment.
2 a branch of knowledge studied or taught in a school, college, or university.
3 a citizen or member of a state other than its supreme ruler.
4 Philosophy a thinking or feeling entity; the conscious mind; the ego, especially as opposed to anything external to the mind. 
• the central substance or core of a thing as opposed to its attributes. 
▶adjective 
ˈsəbjekt 
[predicative] (subject to)
1 likely or prone to be affected by (a particular condition or occurrence, typically an unwelcome or unpleasant one): he was subject to bouts of manic depression.
2 dependent or conditional upon: the proposed merger is subject to the approval of the shareholders.
3 under the authority of: legislation making Congress subject to the laws it passes. 
• [attributive] under the control or domination of (another ruler, country, or government): the Greeks were the first subject people to break free from Ottoman rule. 
▶adverb 
ˈsəbjekt 
(subject to) conditionally upon: subject to bankruptcy court approval, the company expects to begin liquidation of its inventory. 
▶verb 
səbˈjekt 
[with object]
1 (subject someone/something to) cause or force to undergo (a particular experience of form of treatment): he'd subjected her to a terrifying ordeal.
2 bring (a person or country) under one's control or jurisdiction, typically by using force. DERIVATIVES subjectless 
ˈsəbjək(t)ləs 
adjectiveORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘(person) owing obedience’): from Old French suget, from Latin subjectus ‘brought under,’ past participle of subicere, from sub- ‘under’ + jacere ‘throw.’ Senses relating to philosophy, logic, and grammar are derived ultimately from Aristotle's use of to hupokeimenon meaning ‘material from which things are made’ and ‘subject of attributes and predicates.’
