substitute 
BrE ˈsʌbstɪtjuːt, AmE ˈsəbstəˌt(j)ut 

A.  noun 
① Countable and uncountable(alternative) 代替者 dàitìzhě a milk substitute 代乳品 a substitute fuel 代乳燃料 the local bus service was a poor substitute for their car 他们坐当地的公交车，这比坐自己的汽车差远了 
② CountableSport 替补队员 tìbǔ duìyuán to come on or be brought on as (a) substitute 作为替补队员上场 a substitute goalkeeper 替补守门员 
③ CountablePsychology 替身 tìshēn when her parents died, we became her substitute family 她的双亲去世后，我们成了她家人的替身 
B.  transitive verb 
① (use as replacement) 用…代替 yòng… dàitì an understudy was substituted when the star broke a leg 那位明星腿断了，由替角代替演出 
② (replace) 替代 tìdài butter can be substituted with margarine in this recipe 做这道菜可以用人造黄油代替黄油 
③ Sport 替换 tìhuàn ‹player›he was substituted in the second half because of a knee injury 下半场他因膝盖受伤被换下场 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (act as replacement) 代替 dàitì to substitute for [something] 代替某事物 nothing can substitute for the advice your doctor is able to give you 医生给你的忠告是无可替代的 
② Sport 担任替补队员 dānrèn tìbǔ duìyuán to substitute for [somebody] 替换某人 he substituted for Robinson in the second half 下半场他替下了鲁宾逊 
substitute 
ˈsəbstəˌt(y)o͞ot

▶noun a person or thing acting or serving in place of another: soy milk is used as a substitute for dairy milk. 
• a sports player nominated as eligible to replace another after a game has begun. 
• Psychology a person or thing that becomes the object of love or other emotion deprived of its natural outlet: a father substitute. 
▶verb [with object] use or add in place of: dried rosemary can be substituted for the fresh herb. 
• [no object] act or serve as a substitute: I found someone to substitute for me. 
• replace (someone or something) with another: customs officers substituted the drugs with another substance 
this was substituted by a new clause. 
• replace (a sports player) with a substitute during a contest: he was substituted for Nichols in the fifth inning. 
• Chemistry replace (an atom or group in a molecule, especially a hydrogen atom) with another. 
• (as adjective substituted) Chemistry (of a compound) in which one or more hydrogen atoms have been replaced by other atoms or groups: a substituted alkaloid. DERIVATIVES substitutability 
ˌsəbstəˌt(y)o͞otəˈbilitē 
noun. substitutable 
ˈsəbstəˌt(y)o͞odəb(ə)l 
adjective. substitutive 
-ˌt(y)o͞otiv 
adjectiveORIGIN late Middle English (denoting a deputy or delegate): from Latin substitutus ‘put in place of,’ past participle of substituere, based on statuere ‘set up.’ usage: Traditionally, the verb substitute is followed by for and means ‘put (someone or something) in place of another,’ as in she substituted the fake vase for the real one. From the late 17th century, substitute has also been used to mean ‘replace (someone or something) with someone or something else,’ as in she substituted the real vase with the fake one. This can be confusing, since the two sentences shown above mean the same thing, yet the object of the verb and the object of the preposition have swapped positions. Despite the potential confusion, the second, newer use is well established, especially in some scientific contexts and in sports ( the top scorer was substituted with almost half an hour still to play), and is now generally regarded as part of standard English.
