substance 
BrE ˈsʌbst(ə)ns, AmE ˈsəbstəns 
noun 
① Countable(type of matter) 东西 dōngxi a chemical substance 化学物质 a sticky/dangerous/poisonous substance 黏性/危险/有毒物质 this substance should not come into contact with food 这种东西不可以和食物接触 
② Countable(drug) [尤指违法的] 药物 yàowù illegal substances 毒品 a substance abuser 滥用药物者 
③ Uncountable(basis in reality) 事实基础 shìshí jīchǔ to have/lack substance 具有/缺乏事实根据 there is no/some substance to [something] 某事物没有/有一定的依据 to lend substance to [something] 使某事有根有据 
④ Uncountable(essence) 实质 shízhì in substance formal 本质上 
⑤ Uncountable(importance) 重要性 zhòngyàoxìng talks/matters of substance 重要的会谈/事务 the meeting yielded little of substance 会议几乎没有产生实质性成果 
⑥ Uncountable(physical matter) 物质 wùzhì proteins compose much of the actual substance of the body 蛋白质构成了人体物质的大部分 
substance 
ˈsəbstəns

▶noun
1 a particular kind of matter with uniform properties: a steel tube coated with a waxy substance. 
• an intoxicating, stimulating, or narcotic chemical or drug, especially an illegal one.
2 the real physical matter of which a person or thing consists and which has a tangible, solid presence: proteins compose much of the actual substance of the body. 
• the quality of having a solid basis in reality or fact: the claim has no substance. 
• the quality of being dependable or stable: some were inclined to knock her for her lack of substance.
3 the quality of being important, valid, or significant: he had yet to accomplish anything of substance. 
• the most important or essential part of something; the real or essential meaning: the substance of the treaty. 
• the subject matter of a text, speech, or work of art, especially as contrasted with the form or style in which it is presented. 
• wealth and possessions: a woman of substance. 
• Philosophy the essential nature underlying phenomena, which is subject to changes and accidents. 
PHRASES
in substance essentially: basic rights are equivalent in substance to human rights.ORIGIN Middle English (denoting the essential nature of something): from Old French, from Latin substantia ‘being, essence,’ from substant- ‘standing firm,’ from the verb substare .
