subscribe 
BrE səbˈskrʌɪb, AmE səbˈskraɪb 

A.  intransitive verb 
① (pay to receive or view sth.) 订购 dìnggòu to subscribe to; 订阅 ‹magazine› 预付费收看 yùfùfèi shōukàn ‹TV, channel›
② (support) 定期捐助 dìngqī juānzhù to subscribe to; 定期向…捐助 ‹fund, charity›
③ Finance (apply) 认购 rèngòu to subscribe to or for [something]; 认购 rèngòu ‹issue, shares›
④ (agree with) to subscribe to an idea/theory; 赞同一个观点/认同一个理论 zàntóng yī gè guāndiǎn/rèntóng yī gè lǐlùn 
B.  transitive verb 
① (contribute) 定期捐助 dìngqī juānzhù ‹sum›
② usually passive (apply for) 报名参加 bàomíng cānjiā ‹course, tour›; 认购 rèngòu ‹issue, shares›the class was fully subscribed 这个班名额已满 
subscribe 
səbˈskrīb

▶verb
1 [no object] arrange to receive something regularly, typically a publication, by paying in advance: subscribe to the magazine for twelve months and receive a free T-shirt. 
• arrange for access to an electronic mailing list or online service: some 40,000 users have subscribed to the service at $ 2.99 per month. 
• chiefly British contribute or undertake to contribute a certain sum of money to a particular fund, project, or charitable cause, typically on a regular basis: he is one of the millions who subscribe to the NSPCC 
[with object] : he subscribed £400 to the campaign. 
• [with object] apply to participate in: the course has been fully subscribed. 
• apply for or undertake to pay for an offering of shares of stock: investors would subscribe electronically to the initial stock offerings 
[with object] : yesterday's offering was fully subscribed. 
• [with object] (of a bookseller) agree before publication to take (a certain number of copies of a book): most of the first print run of 15,000 copies has been subscribed.
2 (subscribe to) express or feel agreement with (an idea or proposal): we prefer to subscribe to an alternative explanation.
3 [with object] formal sign (a will, contract, or other document): he subscribed the will as a witness. 
• sign (one's name) on a legal document. 
• (subscribe oneself) [with complement] archaic sign oneself as: he ventured still to subscribe himself her most obedient servant. ORIGIN late Middle English (in the sense ‘sign at the bottom of a document’): from Latin subscribere, from sub- ‘under’ + scribere ‘write.’
