suck 
BrE sʌk, AmE sək 

A.  transitive verb 
① (take into mouth) 吸食 xīshí to suck milk through a straw 用吸管喝奶 to suck the juice from an orange 吸橙子的汁 she sucked the smoke into her lungs 她把烟吸进肺里 → grandmother 
② (keep in mouth) 吮 shǔn she sucked a mint 她嘴里咂着一颗薄荷糖 stop sucking your thumb! 别吃大拇指！ to suck one's teeth BrE (when feeling doubtful) 疑惑地吸气 
③ (swallow liquid from) 吸食…的汁液 xīshí… de zhīyè the baby is sucking its mother's breast 婴儿在吃母亲的奶 he sucked the orange dry 他把橙子吸干了 
④ (draw in) 抽吸 chōuxī plants suck moisture from the soil 植物从土壤中吸取水分 I was getting sucked into the affair 我正被卷入这一事件 
⑤ vulg (fellate) 对…行口交 duì… xíng kǒujiāo ‹person›; 舔吸 tiǎnxī ‹penis›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (take liquid into mouth) 吸食 xīshí the baby was finding it difficult to suck 这个婴儿吸奶有困难 
② (keep object in mouth) 吮吸 shǔnxī the old man was sucking at his pipe 老人在吸烟斗 
③ (draw in liquid) 抽吸 chōuxī to suck on a tube to draw the liquid up 用管子把液体吸上来 
④ especially AmE colloquial (be bad) 令人讨厌 lìng rén tǎoyàn the weather here really sucks! 这里的天气真讨厌！ it sucked that we had to leave so soon 糟糕的是，我们不得不这么快就离开 
C.  noun 吮吸 shǔnxī sucks to you! BrE colloquial 瞧你这副熊样！ PHRASAL VERBS suck in transitive verb[suck somebody/something in, suck in somebody/something] 
① (take into mouth) 把…吸进嘴里 bǎ… xījìn zuǐ li ‹liquid, air›he sucked in a mouthful of cigar smoke 他吸了一大口雪茄烟 
② (draw in) 吸入 xīrù ‹liquid, air›
③ (pull inwards) 收缩 shōusuō ‹cheeks, stomach›
④ (pull inside) 把…吸进去 bǎ… xī jìnqu the marsh sucked him in remorselessly 沼泽无情地把他吞没了 
⑤ (involve) 把…卷入 bǎ… juǎnrù don't get sucked in: you know it's dangerous 别卷入其中，你知道这很危险 suck off transitive verb[suck somebody off, to suck off somebody] vulg 对…行口交 duì… xíng kǒujiāo ‹man›suck out transitive verb[suck something out, suck out something] 
① (take into mouth) 吸食 xīshí to suck the juice out of an orange 吸橙子的汁 the vampire had sucked all the blood out of her 吸血鬼把她的血吸干了 
② (draw out) 把…吸出来 bǎ… xī chulai the pump sucks air out through the valve 抽气机通过阀门把空气抽出去 suck up 
A.  transitive verb[suck something up, suck up something] 
① (take into mouth) 吸食 xīshí she was sucking up milk through a straw 她正在用吸管喝牛奶 
② (draw upwards) 把…吸上来 bǎ… xī shànglai to suck up the petrol through the siphon 用虹吸管把汽油吸上来 
B.  intransitive verb colloquial pejorative 奉承 fèngcheng to suck up to [somebody]; 奉承某人 she's only sucking up to him 她只是在拍他的马屁 
suck 
sək

▶verb
1 [with object] draw into the mouth by contracting the muscles of the lip and mouth to make a partial vacuum: they suck mint juleps through straws. 
• hold (something) in the mouth and draw at it by contracting the lip and cheek muscles: she sucked a mint 
[no object] : the child sucked on her thumb. 
• draw milk, juice, or other fluid from (something) into the mouth or by suction: she sucked each segment of the orange carefully. 
• draw in a specified direction by creating a vacuum: he was sucked under the surface of the river. 
• [no object] (of a pump) make a gurgling sound as a result of drawing air.
2 involve (someone) in something without their choosing: I didn't want to be sucked into the role of dutiful daughter.
3 [no object] North American informal be very bad, disagreeable, or disgusting: I love your country, but the weather sucks. 
▶noun an act of sucking something. 
• the sound made by water retreating and drawing at something: the soft suck of the sea against the sand. 
PHRASES
give suck archaic give milk from the breast or teat; suckle. suck someone dry exhaust someone's physical, material, or emotional resources. suck it up US informal accept a hardship.PHRASAL VERBS suck someone in cheat or deceive someone: we were sucked in by his charm and good looks. suck someone off vulgar slang perform fellatio on someone. suck up informal behave obsequiously, especially for one's own advantage: he has risen to where he is mainly by sucking up to the president.ORIGIN Old English sūcan (verb), from an Indo-European imitative root; related to soak .
