sugar 
BrE ˈʃʊɡə, AmE ˈʃʊɡər 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(unrefined) [植物所含的] 糖 táng to refine sugar 炼糖 
② Uncountable and countable(refined) 食糖 shítáng brown/white sugar 红糖/白糖 how many sugars do you take? 你要加多少糖？ a sugar spoon 糖勺 
③ especially AmE colloquial (term of endearment) 亲爱的 qīn'ài de bye, sugar! 再见，宝贝儿！ 
B.  exclamation euphemistic colloquial 完了 wánle [表示恼怒]sugar! I've forgotten my wallet! 糟了！我忘带钱包了！ 
C.  transitive verb 在…中加糖 zài… zhōng jiā táng sugared almonds 糖衣杏仁 
sugar 
▶noun add a pinch of sugar to the strawberries: sweetener, cane sugar, sucrose, dextrose, fructose.REFLECTIONS Anna Deavere Smithsugar Sugar is a noun referring to a sweet substance. Sugar can also be used as a verb. To 'sugar something' would be to make it better, more palatable, more acceptable, more bearable. For example, to sugar the medicine, to sugar a bitter love affair, to sugar a diminishing bank account, to sugar worldwide poverty. Sugar is also used to connote affection. My memories of growing up in a Southern African-American community are sugared with vocal tones and images of adults calling me, and other children, “Sugar.” Or upon greeting us, they’d bend down and say “Gimme some sugar,” meaning “give me a kiss” (or a hug). I therefore think of sugar as a kind of warm welcome, an invitation to be a part of a group, or extended family. That same community ultimately tackled and often succumbed to an increasingly prevalent epidemic of diabetes and obesity. Since that time, a worldwide pandemic of diabetes has evolved. Yet, it’s difficult to find food that is made without sugar. And, consider what it took to get a teaspoon of sugar in the first place. Sugar-cane fields did and do offer the harshest work conditions. Slaves who misbehaved, for example, in the American South were sometimes shipped off to Caribbean sugar-cane fields. They were worse than domestic tobacco fields. Sugar is full of contradictions. Sweet, yes. But possibly as dangerous as a gun. Conceivably one day, the naming or calling of a person “Sugar” will have a ring of irony. "Sugar" may even be a part of a warning. Warning: This food contains sugar, a substance which can cause diabetes, obesity, or death.Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
