suit 
BrE suːt, AmE sut 

A.  noun 
① (jacket and trousers) 套装 tàozhuāng he is wearing a grey suit 他穿着一套灰西装 a suit of clothes 一套衣服 
② (jacket and skirt) 套裙 tàoqún 
③ (clothes for particular activity) [特种用途的] 成套服装 chéngtào fúzhuāng a flying/protective suit 飞行服/防护服 
④ (in cards) 所有同花色的牌 suǒyǒu tóng huāsè de pái four cards of the same suit 4张同花色的牌 to follow suit (in card games) 跟牌 figurative (do the same) 照着做 zhàozhe zuò 
⑤ Law (lawsuit) 诉讼 sùsòng to lose/win a suit 败诉/胜诉 a civil/divorce suit 民事/离婚诉讼 they have brought or filed a suit for damages against the company 他们已经起诉该公司要求损害赔偿 
⑥ colloquial pejorative (person) 要员 yàoyuán 
B.  transitive verb 
① (be convenient for) 对…方便 duì… fāngbiàn (be acceptable to) 中…的意 zhōng… de yì it doesn't suit us to come that day 我们那天不方便过来 if you want to go by bus, that suits me fine 要是你想坐公交车去，那正合我意 to suit [somebody] down to the ground BrE colloquial 完全合某人的心意 to suit [somebody's] book BrE colloquial (be convenient for) 对某人方便 (be acceptable to) 中某人的意 
② (be appropriate for) 适合 shìhé the job doesn't suit her 这工作不适合她 the house suits our requirements 这房子符合我们的要求 
③ (look good on) 与…相配 yǔ… xiāngpèi that dress really suits you 那条连衣裙你穿很好看 red doesn't suit you 你不适合穿红色 
④ especially BrE (be beneficial for) 适宜 shìyí this hot weather doesn’t suit me 天这么热，我真受不了 
⑤ (match) to suit [something] to [somebody]/[something]; 使某事物适合某人/某事物 shǐ mǒu shìwù shìhé mǒu rén/mǒu shìwù to suit the punishment to the crime 按罚量刑 àn fá liàngxíng to suit the action to the word literary 言行一致 yánxíng yīzhì 
C.  intransitive verb 合适 héshì will ten o'clock suit? 10点钟方便吗？ 
D.  reflexive verb 
① (please oneself) to suit oneself 照自己的意愿 zhào zìjǐ de yìyuàn I choose my assignments to suit myself 我根据自己的喜好挑选任务 
② (expressing annoyance) to suit oneself 自便 zìbiàn I think I’ll stay in this evening — suit yourself! 我今晚就不出去了──随你的便！ 
suit 
so͞ot

▶noun
1 a set of outer clothes made of the same fabric and designed to be worn together, typically consisting of a jacket and trousers or a jacket and skirt. 
• a set of clothes to be worn on a particular occasion or for a particular activity: a jogging suit. 
• a complete set of pieces of armor for covering the whole body. 
• a complete set of sails required for a ship or for a set of spars. 
• (usually suits) informal an executive in a business or organization, typically one regarded as exercising influence in an impersonal way: maybe now the suits in Washington will listen.
2 any of the sets distinguished by their pictorial symbols into which a deck of playing cards is divided, in conventional decks comprising spades, hearts, diamonds, and clubs.
3 short for lawsuit. 
• the process of trying to win a woman's affection, typically with a view to marriage: he could not compete with John's charms in Marian's eyes and his suit came to nothing. 
• literary a petition or entreaty made to a person in authority. 
▶verb
1 [with object] be convenient for or acceptable to: he lied whenever it suited him 
[no object] : the apartment has two bedrooms—if it suits, you can have one of them. 
• (suit oneself) [often in imperative] act entirely according to one's own wishes (often used to express the speaker's annoyance): “I'm not going to help you.” “Suit yourself.” 
• go well with or enhance the features, figure, or character of (someone): the dress didn't suit her. 
• (suit something to) archaic adapt or make appropriate for (something): they took care to suit their answers to the questions put to them.
2 [no object] North American put on clothes, typically for a particular activity: I suited up and entered the water. 
PHRASES
follow suit see follow. ORIGIN Middle English: from Anglo-Norman French siwte, from a feminine past participle of a Romance verb based on Latin sequi ‘follow.’ Early senses included ‘attendance at a court’ and ‘legal process’; sense
1 of the noun and sense
2 of the noun derive from an earlier meaning ‘set of things to be used together.’ The verb sense ‘make appropriate’ dates from the late 16th century.
