sum 
BrE sʌm, AmE səm 
noun 
① (amount of money) 款项 kuǎnxiàng a six-figure sum 一笔6位数的款项 a large sum of money 一大笔钱 to be fined the sum of £200 被罚款200英镑 
② (total from addition) 总和 zǒnghé the sum of
7 and
12 is
19 7加12的和是19 
③ (totality) 全部 quánbù is that the sum of their achievements? 那就是他们的全部成就吗？ to be greater or more than the sum of its parts 个体相加不如集体的力量大 the sum and substance of [something] 某事物的要点 in sum formal 总之 
④ BrE colloquial (calculation) 算术 suànshù to be good at sums 擅长算术 to do a sum in one's head 做心算 to do one's sums 做算术题 figurative 估算一下 gūsuàn yīxià to get one's sums right 做对算术题 figurative 估算正确 gūsuàn zhèngquè PHRASAL VERB sum up 
A.  intransitive verb(present participle etc. -mm-) 
① (summarize) 总结 zǒngjié to sum up, there are three main ways of tackling the problem 总而言之，这一问题主要有三种解决办法 
② Law «judge» 概述要点 gàishù yàodiǎn 
B.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -mm-) [sum something up], [sum up something] 
① (summarize) 总结 zǒngjié in the last chapter I will briefly sum up my conclusions 在最后一章，我会简要总结一下我得出的若干结论 
② Law «judge» 对…作概述 duì… zuò gàishù ‹evidence, case›
③ (describe concisely) 概括 gàikuò the city's problem can be summed up in a few words: too many people 这座城市的问题可以用几个字来概括：人太多 
④ (size up) 估量 gūliáng to sum up a situation/person 估计形势/对某个人作出评判 
sum 
səm

▶noun
1 a particular amount of money: they could not afford such a sum.
2 (the sum of) the total amount resulting from the addition of two or more numbers, amounts, or items: the sum of two prime numbers. 
• the total amount of something that exists: the sum of his own knowledge.
3 an arithmetical problem, especially at an elementary level. 
▶verb (sums, summing, summed) [with object] technical find the sum of (two or more amounts): if we sum these equations we obtain x. 
• [no object] (sum to) (of two or more amounts) add up to a specified total: these additional probabilities must sum to 1. 
PHRASES
in sum to sum up; in summary: this interpretation does little, in sum, to add to our understanding.PHRASAL VERBS sum up give a brief summary of something: Gerard will open the debate and I will sum up. 
• Law (of a judge) review the evidence at the end of a case, and direct the jury regarding points of law. sum someone/something up express a concise idea of the nature or character of a person or thing: selfish—that summed her up.ORIGIN Middle English: via Old French from Latin summa ‘main part, sum total,’ feminine of summus ‘highest.’
