sun 
BrE sʌn, AmE sən 

A.  noun 
① Countable(in solar system) 太阳 tàiyáng the sun is rising/setting 太阳正在升起/落下 the sun is shining 阳光照耀 an eclipse of the sun 日食 to be up before the sun 日出之前起床 with the sun (at sunrise) 日出时 (at sunset) 日落时 I get up with the sun 我日出即起 under the sun (on earth) 世上的 (in existence) 存在的 we talked about everything under the sun 天南地北，我们无所不谈 there's no reason under the sun why he should be here 他根本没有任何理由待在这儿 
② Uncountable(sunlight) 阳光 yángguāng the warmth of the afternoon sun 午后阳光的温暖 this room gets (the) sun in the mornings 这个房间上午可以晒到太阳 in the sun (in sunny position) 在阳光下 (in sunny country) 在阳光充足的地方 a place in the sun (sunny position) 阳光充足之处 (home in sunny country) 阳光灿烂的家园 (good situation) 优越的处境 out of the sun 不在阳光下 to keep out of the sun 避开阳光的照射 
③ CountableAstronomy (any star) 恒星 héngxīng 
B.  reflexive verb(present participle etc. -nn-) to sun oneself 晒太阳 shài tàiyáng 
sun 
sən

▶noun
1 (the sun or the Sun) the star around which the earth orbits. 
• any star in the universe similar to the sun, with or without planets. The sun is the central body of the solar system. It provides the light and energy that sustains life on earth, and its position relative to the earth's axis determines the terrestrial seasons. The sun is a star of a type known as a G2 dwarf, a sphere of hydrogen and helium 870,000 miles (1.4 million km) in diameter that obtains its energy from nuclear fusion reactions in its interior, where the temperature is about
15 million°
C.  The surface is a little under 6,000°
C. 
2 (usually the sun) the light or warmth received from the earth's sun: we sat outside in the sun. 
• literary a person or thing regarded as a source of glory or inspiration or understanding: the rhetoric faded before the sun of reality. 
• literary used with reference to someone's success or prosperity: the sun of the Plantagenets went down in clouds.
3 literary a day or a year: after going so many suns without food, I was sleeping. 
▶verb (suns, sunning, sunned) (sun oneself) sit or lie in the sun: Buzz could see Clare sunning herself on the terrace below. 
• [with object] expose (something) to the sun, especially to warm or dry it: the birds are sunning their wings. 
PHRASES
against the sun Nautical against the direction of the sun's apparent movement in the northern hemisphere; from right to left or counterclockwise. catch the sun see catch. make hay while the sun shines see hay1. on which the sun never sets (of an empire) worldwide. [applied in the 17th century to the Spanish dominions, later to the British Empire.] place in the sun see place. shoot the sun Nautical ascertain the altitude of the sun with a sextant in order to determine one's latitude. under the sun on earth; in existence (used in expressions emphasizing the large number of something): they exchanged views on every subject under the sun. with the sun Nautical in the direction of the sun's apparent movement in the northern hemisphere; from left to right or clockwise.DERIVATIVES sunlike 
-ˌlīk 
adjective. sunward 
ˈsənwərd 
adjective & adverb. sunwards 
ˈsənwərdz 
adverbORIGIN Old English sunne, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch zon and German Sonne, from an Indo-European root shared by Greek hēlios and Latin sol .
