support 
BrE səˈpɔːt, AmE səˈpɔrt 

A.  transitive verb 
① (back, provide assistance to) 支持 zhīchí what team do you support? 你支持哪个队？ an organization that supports people with AIDS 一个向艾滋病患者提供援助的组织 
② (provide financial backing to) 资助 zīzhù the project is supported by the EU 该项目受到欧盟的资助 
③ (provide for) 供养 gōngyǎng to support oneself/a wife and children 养活自己/妻小 she supported her son through college 她供儿子读完了大学 the atmosphere of Mars could not support life 生命体无法在火星的大气环境中生存 
④ (pay to sustain) 维持 wéichí to support one's drug habit 维持吸毒的恶习 
⑤ (bear weight of) 支撑 zhīchēng a platform supported by concrete pillars 混凝土柱子支撑的平台 support the baby’s head when you hold it 抱婴儿时要把头托住 
⑥ (corroborate) 证实 zhèngshí the witness’s story was not supported by the evidence 目击者的说法没有证据的支持 
⑦ (perform earlier than) 为…进行垫场表演 wèi… jìnxíng diànchǎng biǎoyǎn ‹band, performer›
⑧ Computing 支持 zhīchí ‹program, device, language›
B.  noun 
① Uncountable(backing, approval) 支持 zhīchí there is strong public support for the change 公众大力拥护这一变革 he spoke in support of the motion 他表示支持这一动议 the theatre closed because of lack of support 由于缺乏观众的支持，这家剧院关门了 
② Uncountable(financial assistance) 资助 zīzhù financial support 财政资助 
③ Uncountable(money to live on) 生计 shēngjì means of support 生计来源 
④ UncountableMilitary 支援 zhīyuán air/sea support 空中/海上支援 
⑤ Uncountable(bearing of weight) 支撑 zhīchēng to give extra support 提供额外支撑 she held on to his arm for support 她抓住他的手臂以便能站稳 the garment gives excellent support 这件衣服起到很好的支托作用 
⑥ Countable(thing bearing weight) 支撑物 zhīchēngwù a support for the tent 帐篷的支架 the supports under the bridge 桥下的支柱 a knee/neck support 护膝/颈托 
⑦ Uncountable(supporters) 支持者 zhīchízhě Green Party support 绿党的支持者 
⑧ Countablesingular (help, comfort) 安慰 ānwèi he was a great support to me when she died 她去世的时候，他给了我极大的帮助 
⑨ Uncountable(corroboration) 证实 zhèngshí the statistics offer further support for our theory 统计数字进一步支持了我们的理论 there is a lot of evidence in support of this point of view 有大量的证据支持这个观点 
⑩ Uncountable and countable(secondary act at concert) (individual) 垫场演员 diànchǎng yǎnyuán (band) 垫场乐队 diànchǎng yuèduì 
⑪ Uncountable(technical assistance) 技术支持 jìshù zhīchí we offer free technical support 我们提供免费的技术支持 if you have a problem, just call support 如有疑问，请致电技术支持部门查询 
support 
səˈpôrt

▶verb [with object]
1 bear all or part of the weight of; hold up: the dome was supported by a hundred white columns. 
• produce enough food and water for; be capable of sustaining: the land had lost its capacity to support life. 
• be capable of fulfilling (a role) adequately: tutors gain practical experience that helps them support their tutoring role. 
• endure; tolerate: at work during the day I could support the grief.
2 give assistance to, especially financially; enable to function or act: the government gives $2.5 billion a year to support the activities of the voluntary sector. 
• provide with a home and the necessities of life: my main concern was to support my family. 
• give approval, comfort, or encouragement to: I like to visit her to support her 
the proposal was supported by many delegates. 
• suggest the truth of; corroborate: the studies support our findings. 
• be actively interested in and concerned for the success of (a particular sports team). 
• (as adjective supporting) (of an actor or a role) important in a play or film but subordinate to the leading parts. 
• (of a pop or rock group or performer) function as a secondary act to (another) at a concert.
3 Computing (of a computer or operating system) allow the use or operation of (a program, language, or device): the new versions do not support the graphical user interface standard. 
▶noun
1 a thing that bears the weight of something or keeps it upright: the best support for a camera is a tripod. 
• the action or state of bearing the weight of something or someone or of being so supported: she clutched the sideboard for support.
2 material assistance: he urged that military support be sent to protect humanitarian convoys 
[as modifier] : support staff. 
• approval, encouragement, or comfort: the paper printed many letters in support of the government 
she's been through a bad time and needs our support. 
• a source of comfort or encouragement: he was a great support when her father died. 
• a secondary act at a pop or rock concert. 
• technical help given to the user of a computer or other product. 
PHRASES
in support of giving assistance to: air operations in support of the land forces. 
• showing approval of: the paper printed many letters in support of the government. 
• attempting to promote or obtain: a strike in support of an 8.5% pay raise.DERIVATIVES supportability 
səˌpôrtəˈbilitē 
noun. supportable 
səˈpôrdəb(ə)l 
adjectiveORIGIN Middle English (originally in the sense ‘tolerate, put up with’): from Old French supporter, from Latin supportare, from sub- ‘from below’ + portare ‘carry.’
