suppose 
BrE səˈpəʊz, AmE səˈpoʊz 
transitive verb 
① (believe) 认为 rènwéi getting a visa isn’t as simple as you might suppose 办签证不像你想的那么容易 it was generally supposed that he had died 大家都以为他已经死了 when do you suppose (that) he'll arrive? 你觉得他什么时候会到？ prices will go up, I suppose 我觉得物价会上涨 
② (imagine) 设想 shèxiǎng (introducing hypothesis) 假定 jiǎdìng let us suppose that this theory is correct 让我们假设这个理论是正确的 the theory supposes the existence of life on other planets 这个理论假定其他行星上存在生命 suppose he is dead: what then? 假如他死了，那怎么办？ 
③ (expressing reluctant agreement) [表示勉强同意]I suppose you're right 我看你是对的 can I borrow the car? — I suppose so 我能借这辆车吗？──我看行吧 I could take you in the car, I suppose 好吧，你就坐我的车吧 
④ (expressing annoyance) [表示生气]I suppose you think it’s funny, do you? 我看你是觉得这挺好玩，是不是？ 
⑤ (making polite request) [表示婉转的建议、提问或请求]suppose we get a later train? 要不我们坐晚一点的火车？ I don’t suppose you know where she's gone? 您知不知道她去哪儿了？ I don’t suppose I could have a look at your newspaper, could I? 我能不能看看您的报纸？ 
⑥ (introducing interesting detail) 猜想 cāixiǎng who do you suppose I saw yesterday? 你猜猜我昨天见着谁了？ 
suppose 
səˈpōz

▶verb
1 [with clause] assume that something is the case on the basis of evidence or probability but without proof or certain knowledge: I suppose I got there about half past eleven. 
• used to make a reluctant or hesitant admission: I'm quite a good actress, I suppose. 
• used to introduce a hypothesis and trace or ask about what follows from it: suppose he had been murdered—what then? 
• [in imperative] used to introduce a suggestion: suppose we leave this to the police. 
• (of a theory or argument) assume or require that something is the case as a precondition: the procedure supposes that a will has already been proved 
[with object] : the theory supposes a predisposition to interpret utterances. 
• [with object] believe to exist or to possess a specified characteristic: he supposed the girl to be about twelve.
2 (be supposed to do something) be required to do something because of the position one is in or an agreement one has made: I'm supposed to be meeting someone at the airport. 
• [with negative] be forbidden to do something: I shouldn't have been in the kitchen—I'm not supposed to go in there. 
PHRASES
I suppose so used to express hesitant or reluctant agreement.DERIVATIVES supposable 
səˈpōzəb(ə)l 
adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: from Old French supposer, from Latin supponere (from sub- ‘from below’ + ponere ‘to place’), but influenced by Latin suppositus ‘set under’ and Old French poser ‘to place.’
