sure 
BrE ʃɔː, ʃʊə, AmE ʃʊr 

A.  adjective 
① predicative (clear in one's mind) 确信的 quèxìn de Is that John over there? — I'm not sure 那边那个人是约翰吗？──我说不准 I'm not absolutely sure about or of this 对此我没有绝对把握 are you sure you don’t mind? 你确实不在意吗？ I’m not sure whether I should tell you this 我拿不准该不该把这事告诉你 to make sure (ascertain) 弄清 (ensure) 确保 I think the door’s locked, but I’ll just go and make sure 我觉得门已经锁了，不过我还是要去确认一下 make sure no one finds out about this 绝对不要让任何人发觉这件事 they scored another goal and made sure of victory 他们又进了一个球，确保了胜局 make or be sure to give your family my regards 务必代我向你的家人问好 to be sure formal (conceding point) 固然 dated (adding emphasis) 确实 quèshí he is intelligent, to be sure, but he’s also very lazy 他聪明是聪明，但也很懒 
② predicative (guaranteed) 一定的 yīdìng de we are sure of success or succeeding 我们一定会成功 England must win this game to be sure of qualifying for the World Cup 英格兰队必须赢得这场比赛才能确保获得世界杯的参赛资格 it's sure to rain 准会下雨 
③ (undoubted) 不容置疑的 bù róng zhì yí de sure proof 确凿的证据 the war will be long, but victory is sure 战争会很漫长，但胜利终将到来 for sure colloquial (without doubt) 无疑 AmE colloquial (in answers) 当然 dāngrán no one knows for sure what happened 没有人确切知道发生了什么事 one thing is (for) sure: it’s not going to be easy 有一点可以肯定：事情不会很容易 a sure thing colloquial 确定的事 sure thing! especially AmE colloquial 当然！ 
④ (reliable) 可靠的 kěkào de a sure friend 可靠的朋友 a sure remedy for colds 治感冒的良药 it’s a sure sign of economic recovery 这是经济复苏的可靠征兆 
⑤ predicative (confident) 有信心的 yǒu xìnxīn de she seems very sure of herself 她好像非常自信 
⑥ (assured) 有把握的 yǒu bǎwò de with a sure hand 沉着自信地 
B.  adverb 
① colloquial (yes) 当然 dāngrán will you open the wine? — sure, where is it? 你把葡萄酒打开好吗？──没问题，在哪儿呢？ did it hurt? — sure it hurt 疼吗？──当然疼了 
② colloquial (used for emphasis) 确实 quèshí it sure is cold 确实很冷 amazing view — sure is 景色真美──没错 (as) sure as I'm standing here or as hell or as eggs are eggs 千真万确 I'm sure as hell not inviting him 我肯定不会邀请他 that song sure sounds familiar 那首歌确实耳熟 
③ colloquial (in reply to thanks) 不用客气 bùyòng kèqi 
④ sure enough (as predicted) 果然 guǒrán I said he’d forget, and sure enough he did 我说过他会忘记，他果然忘了 
sure 
SHo͝or

▶adjective [predicative often with clause] confident in what one thinks or knows; having no doubt that one is right: I'm sure I've seen that dress before 
she had to check her diary to be sure of the day of the week. 
• (sure of) having a certain prospect or confident anticipation of: Ripken can be sure of a place in the Hall of Fame. 
• [with infinitive] certain to do something: it's sure to rain before morning. 
• true beyond any doubt: what is sure is that learning is a complex business. 
• [attributive] able to be relied on or trusted: her neck was red—a sure sign of agitation. 
• confident; assured: the drawings impress by their sure sense of rhythm. 
▶adverb informal, chiefly North American certainly (used for emphasis): Texas sure was a great place to grow up. 
• [as an exclamation] used to show assent: “Are you serious?” “Sure.” 
PHRASES
be sure [usually in imperative] do not fail (used to emphasize an invitation or instruction): [with infinitive] : be sure to drop by 
[with clause] : be sure that you know what is required. for sure informal without doubt: I can't say for sure what George really wanted. make sure [usually with clause] establish that something is definitely so; confirm: go and make sure she's all right. 
• ensure that something is done or happens: he made sure that his sons were well educated. sure enough informal used to introduce a statement that confirms something previously predicted: when X-rays were taken, sure enough, there was the needle. sure of oneself very confident of one's own abilities or views: he's very sure of himself. sure thing informal a certainty. 
• [as exclamation] chiefly North American certainly; of course: “Can I watch?” “Sure thing.” to be sure used to concede the truth of something that conflicts with another point that one wishes to make: the ski runs are very limited, to be sure, but excellent for beginners. 
• used for emphasis: what an extraordinary woman she was, to be sure.DERIVATIVES sureness 
ˈSHo͝ornəs 
nounORIGIN Middle English: from Old French sur, from Latin securus ‘free from care.’
