surface 
BrE ˈsəːfɪs, AmE ˈsərfəs 

A.  noun 
① (top, outer layer) 表面 biǎomiàn on the surface (of [something]) 在（某物的）表面 under or beneath or below the surface 在地表下 to work at the surface «miner» 在地面工作 
② (upper limit of water) 水面 shuǐmiàn to float to the surface 浮到水面 at the surface 在水面 
③ (worktop) 操作台 cāozuòtái kitchen surfaces 厨房台面 
④ Mathematics (of solid, cube) 面 miàn 
⑤ (visible aspect) 外表 wàibiǎo to touch or skim or scratch the surface of 触及…的表面 ‹issue, subject›on the surface 表面上 violence is never far below the surface 暴力事件随时会发生 her grief is never far below the surface 她的悲伤总是难以掩饰 to come or rise to the surface «tensions, emotions» 显露 xiǎnlù 
B.  adjectivebefore noun 
① (outer) 表面的 biǎomiàn de surface layer 表层 surface measurements 表面尺寸 
② (relating to ground) 地表的 dìbiǎo de ‹temperature, feature›
③ (apparent) 表面上的 biǎomiàn shang de ‹similarity, appearance, meaning, problem›
④ (relating to transportation on surface of water) 水上的 shuǐshàng de ‹vessel, fleet›; (relating to transportation across land or sea) 水陆路的 shuǐlùlù de to send [something] by surface mail 通过水陆路邮寄某物 
⑤ Mining 地面上的 dìmiàn shang de ‹work, worker›
⑥ (relating to wound, incision) 表皮的 biǎopí de 
⑦ Linguistics 表层的 biǎocéng de ‹analysis›surface grammar 表层语法 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (emerge from water) 露出水面 lùchū shuǐmiàn he surfaced from his dive 他潜入水中后钻出水面 
② (become apparent) «emotion, problem, evidence» 显露 xiǎnlù ; «rumour, scandal, anxiety» 出现 chūxiàn 
③ (reappear after absence) 重新出现 chóngxīn chūxiàn 
④ colloquial (get out of bed) 起床 qǐchuáng oh, so you've surfaced at last! 哦，你终于起床啦！ 
D.  transitive verb 给…加表面层 gěi… jiā biǎomiàncéng to surface the road/ground with [something] 用某物铺设路面/地面 
surface 
ˈsərfəs

▶noun
1 the outside part or uppermost layer of something (often used when describing its texture, form, or extent): the earth's surface 
poor road surfaces. 
• the level top of something: roll out the dough on a floured surface. 
• (also surface area) the area of such an outer part or uppermost layer: the surface area of a cube. 
• [in singular] the upper limit of a body of liquid: fish floating on the surface of the water. 
• [in singular] what is apparent on a casual view or consideration of someone or something, especially as distinct from feelings or qualities that are not immediately obvious: Tom was a womanizer, but on the surface he remained respectable 
[as modifier] : we need to go beyond surface appearances.
2 Geometry a continuous set of points that has length and breadth but no thickness. 
▶adjective [attributive] relating to or occurring on the upper or outer part of something: surface workers at the copper mines. 
• denoting ships that travel on the surface of the water as distinct from submarines: the surface fleet. 
• carried by or denoting transportation by sea or overland as contrasted with by air: surface mail. 
▶verb
1 [no object] rise or come up to the surface of the water or the ground: he surfaced from his dive. 
• come to people's attention; become apparent: the quarrel first surfaced two years ago. 
• informal (of a person) appear after having been asleep: it was almost noon before Anthony surfaced.
2 [with object] (usually be surfaced) provide (something, especially a road) with a particular upper or outer layer: a small path surfaced with terra-cotta tiles. DERIVATIVES surfacer nounORIGIN early 17th century: from French (see sur-1, face), suggested by Latin superficies .
