surprise 
BrE səˈprʌɪz, AmE sə(r)ˈpraɪz 
A. noun 
① Countable(unexpected event) 意想不到的事物 yìxiǎng bù dào de shìwù it was a lovely surprise! 这真是个意外之喜啊！ there are few surprises in this year’s budget 今年的预算案没什么出人意料的地方 there are lots of surprises in store for visitors to the gallery 参观画展的人将会发现许多令他们惊奇的东西 it comes as or it is a/no surprise (to [somebody]) (to hear/learn/see) that … （听到/得知/看见）…（对某人来说）出乎意料/毫不意外 to be in for a surprise 肯定会大吃一惊 to get/have a surprise 吃了一惊 surprise, surprise! colloquial ironic (emphasizing predictability) 果然不出所料！ colloquial (announcing sth. unexpected) 想不到吧！ xiǎngbudào ba ！ 
② Uncountable and countable(astonishment) 惊讶 jīngyà he had a look of surprise on his face 他的脸上带着惊讶的神情 to show/conceal/express (one's) surprise (at [something]) 流露出/掩饰/表示（对某事物的）惊讶 imagine my surprise when I saw him there! 想象一下当我看到他在那儿的时候是多么惊讶吧！ (much) to [somebody's] surprise 令某人感到（非常）惊讶的是 much to my surprise, I was given the job 万万没想到，我竟然获得了那份工作 in or with surprise 惊讶地 
③ Uncountable and countable(treat) 惊喜 jīngxǐ she wants it to be a surprise 她想让它成为一个惊喜 to have a surprise for [somebody] 给某人一个惊喜 
④ Uncountable(as tactic) 出人意料 chū rén yì liào a successful campaign should have an element of surprise 成功的宣传活动应有出奇制胜之处 to take [somebody] by surprise 出乎某人意料 their visit took me completely by surprise 他们的来访完全令我措手不及 
B.  adjectivebefore noun (unexpected) 意外的 yìwài de ‹decision, resignation, result›a surprise attack 突然袭击 to pay [somebody] a surprise visit 意外拜访某人 
C.  transitive verb 
① (astonish) 使…惊讶 shǐ… jīngyà ‹person›what surprises me most is … 最让我惊讶的是… he surprised everyone by winning 他的获胜让大家都感到惊讶 it surprised us to learn that she had got married 得知她已经结婚，我们感到很意外 it wouldn't surprise me if they rejected the proposals 如果他们拒绝这些提案，我不会感到意外 you (do) surprise me! literal 你（着实）让我吃了一惊！ ironic 你真令我惊讶！ nǐ zhēn lìng wǒ jīngyà ！ surprise me! literal 给我个惊喜！ ironic 让我吃惊吧！ ràng wǒ chījīng ba ！ 
② (catch unawares) 使…措手不及 shǐ… cuò shǒu bù jí ‹intruder, garrison›; 无意中发现 wúyì zhōng fāxiàn ‹person, thief›to surprise [somebody] doing [something]; 无意中发现某人正在做某事 
surprise 
▶noun
1 Kate looked at me in surprise: astonishment, amazement, wonder, incredulity, bewilderment, stupefaction, disbelief.
2 the test came as a big surprise: shock, bolt from the blue, bombshell, revelation, rude awakening, eye-opener, wake-up call; informal shocker.
▶verb
1 I was so surprised that I dropped it: astonish, amaze, startle, astound, stun, stagger, shock; leave open-mouthed, take someone's breath away, dumbfound, stupefy, daze, take aback, shake up; informal bowl over, floor, flabbergast.
2 she surprised a burglar: take by surprise, catch unawares, catch off guard, catch red-handed, catch in the act.QUOTE Surprises are foolish things. The pleasure is not enhanced, and the inconvenience is often considerable.Jane Austen Emma (1815)
