survey 
A.  /BrE ˈsəːveɪ, AmE ˈsərˌveɪ
noun 
① (poll, investigation) 调查 diàochá to carry out or conduct or do a survey 开展调查 the results or findings of a survey 调查结果 a survey of voting intentions 一项关于投票意向的调查 
② (mapping) 测绘 cèhuì ; (map) 测绘图 cèhuìtú a geological/an aerial survey 地质/航空测量 
③ BrE (inspection of building) 房屋检测 fángwū jiǎncè (report on building) 房屋检测报告 fángwū jiǎncè bàogào to get a survey (done) 进行一次房屋检测 
④ (overview) 概述 gàishù a comprehensive survey of modern music/linguistics/literature 现代音乐/语言学/文学综述 
⑤ (careful look) 审视 shěnshì 
B.  /BrE səˈveɪ, AmE sərˈveɪ
transitive verb 
① (investigate) 对…进行调查 duì… jìnxíng diàochá ‹trends, prices, products, market›
② (interview) 向…调查 xiàng… diàochá ‹people, households›
③ (assess) 对…进行评价 duì… jìnxíng píngjià ‹opinion, views, intentions›
④ (map) 测绘 cèhuì ‹site, coastline, region, seabed›
⑤ BrE (in house-buying) 检测 jiǎncè ‹property, house›
⑥ (give overview of) 概述 gàishù ‹research, situation›
⑦ (carefully look at) 审视 shěnshì ‹audience, countryside, scene›
survey 
▶verb 
sərˈvā 
[with object]
1 (of a person or their eyes) look carefully and thoroughly at (someone or something), especially so as to appraise them: her green eyes surveyed him coolly 
I surveyed the options. 
• investigate the opinions or experience of (a group of people) by asking them questions: 95% of patients surveyed were satisfied with the health service. 
• investigate (behavior or opinions) by questioning a group of people: the investigator surveyed the attitudes and beliefs held by residents.
2 examine and record the area and features of (an area of land) so as to construct a map, plan, or description: he surveyed the coasts of New Zealand. 
▶noun 
ˈsərˌvā 

1 a general view, examination, or description of someone or something: the author provides a survey of the relevant literature. 
• an investigation of the opinions or experience of a group of people, based on a series of questions.
2 an act of surveying an area of land: the flight involved a detailed aerial survey of military bases. 
• a map, plan, or detailed description obtained by a survey. 
• a department carrying out the surveying of land: the 
U. 
S.  Geological Survey. ORIGIN late Middle English (in the sense ‘examine and ascertain the condition of’): from Anglo-Norman French surveier, from medieval Latin supervidere, from super- ‘over’ + videre ‘to see.’ The early sense of the noun (late 15th century) was ‘supervision.’
