sweat 
BrE swɛt, AmE swɛt 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(perspiration) 汗 hàn to be covered in sweat 浑身是汗 to be dripping or pouring with sweat 大汗淋漓 beads or drops of sweat 汗珠 no sweat! colloquial 小事一桩！ thanks for everything — hey, no sweat! 多谢你所做的一切──哎呀，举手之劳！ will that be all right? — yeah, no sweat 这样可以吗？──行，别费事了 
② Countable(state of perspiring) 出汗 chūhàn in a sweat 一身汗 to break (out) into a sweat 浑身冒汗 to work up a sweat 干出了一身汗 night sweats 盗汗 
③ Uncountablecolloquial (hard work) 繁重的工作 fánzhòng de gōngzuò (hard effort) 艰苦的努力 jiānkǔ de nǔlì by the sweat of one's brow literary 靠自己的辛勤劳动 to break sweat BrE or a sweat AmE colloquial 费很大力气 
④ Countablecolloquial (anxious state) 焦虑 jiāolǜ to be in/get in(to) a sweat (over [somebody]/[something]) （为某人/某事物）感到/陷入焦虑 
⑤ Countablecolloquial (demanding task) 苦差事 kǔchāishì 
B.  sweats noun pluralespecially AmE colloquial (trousers) 运动裤 yùndòngkù ; (sweatsuit) 运动服 yùndòngfú 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (perspire) 出汗 chūhàn to sweat heavily or profusely 大汗淋漓 he stood there, sweating with fear 他站在那儿，害怕得直流汗 to sweat like a pig colloquial 大汗淋漓 
② colloquial (worry) 担忧 dānyōu to let or make [somebody] sweat 让某人担心 
③ colloquial (work hard) 卖力干活 màilì gànhuó to sweat over; 努力完成 ‹homework, task, report›
④ BrE Culinary (be cooked) «vegetables» 被焖煮 bèi mènzhǔ to let [something] sweat; 焖煮某物 
⑤ (produce moisture) «cheese, vegetable» 渗出水珠 shènchū shuǐzhū 
D.  transitive verb 
① colloquial (produce) 冒出 màochū to sweat buckets 大汗淋漓 to sweat bullets AmE 焦急万分 to sweat blood (work hard) 累死累活地工作 I've sweated blood over this essay 我在这篇论文上费尽了心血 she's sweated blood to support her family 她为养家卖命工作 
② BrE Culinary 焖 mèn ‹vegetables›
③ AmE colloquial (worry about) 为…担忧 wèi… dānyōu don’t sweat the small stuff 别为细枝末节担忧 PHRASAL VERBS sweat off transitive verb[sweat something off, sweat off something] 通过排汗消耗 tōngguò páihàn xiāohào ‹calories, food›; 通过排汗减轻 tōngguò páihàn jiǎnqīng ‹weight›sweat out transitive verb[sweat something out, sweat out something] 通过发汗治好 tōngguò fāhàn zhìhǎo ‹cold, chill, fever›to sweat it out colloquial (endure heat or exertion) 熬过 (wait anxiously) 焦急地等待 
sweat 
swet

▶noun
1 moisture exuded through the pores of the skin, typically in profuse quantities as a reaction to heat, physical exertion, fever, or fear. 
• an instance of exuding moisture through the pores of the skin: even thinking about him made me break out in a sweat 
we'd all worked up a sweat in spite of the cold. 
• informal a state of flustered anxiety or distress: I don't believe he'd get into such a sweat about a girl. 
• informal hard work; effort: computer graphics take a lot of the sweat out of animation.
2 (sweats) chiefly North American informal term for sweatsuit or sweatpants. 
• [as modifier] denoting loose casual garments made of thick, fleecy cotton: sweat tops and bottoms. 
▶verb (sweats, sweating; past sweated or sweat)
1 [no object] exude sweat: he was sweating profusely. 
• [with object] (sweat something out/off) get rid of (something) from the body by exuding sweat: a well-hydrated body sweats out waste products more efficiently. 
• [with object] cause (a person or animal) to exude sweat by exercise or exertion: cold as it was, the climb had sweated him. 
• (of food or an object) ooze or exude beads of moisture onto its surface: cheese stored at room temperature will quickly begin to sweat. 
• (of a person) exert a great deal of strenuous effort: I've sweated over this for six months. 
• (of a person) be or remain in a state of extreme anxiety, typically for a prolonged period: I let her sweat for a while, then I asked her out again. 
• [with object] North American informal worry about (something): he's not going to have a lot of time to sweat the details.
2 [with object] heat (chopped vegetables) slowly in a pan with a small amount of fat, so that they cook in their own juices: sweat the celery and onions with olive oil and seasoning. 
• [no object] (of chopped vegetables) be cooked by sweating: let the chopped onion sweat gently for five minutes.
3 [with object] subject (metal) to surface melting, especially to fasten or join by solder without a soldering iron: the tire is sweated onto the wooden parts. 
PHRASES
break a sweat informal exert oneself physically.by the sweat of one's brow by one's own hard work, typically manual labor. don't sweat it used to urge someone not to worry. no sweat informal used to convey that one perceives no difficulty or problem with something: “We haven't any decaf, I'm afraid.” “No sweat.” sweat blood informal make an extraordinarily strenuous effort to do something: she's sweated blood to support her family. 
• be extremely anxious: we've been sweating blood over the question of what is right. sweat buckets informal sweat profusely. sweat bullets North American informal be extremely anxious or nervous. sweat it out informal endure an unpleasant experience, typically one involving physical exertion in great heat: about 1,500 runners are expected to sweat it out in this year's run. 
• wait in a state of extreme anxiety for something to happen or be resolved: he sweated it out until the lab report was back. sweat the small stuff US informal worry about trivial things.ORIGIN Old English swāt (noun), swǣtan (verb), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch zweet and German Schweiss, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin sudor .
