sweet 
BrE swiːt, AmE swit 

A.  adjective 
① (sugary) 含糖的 hán táng de ‹food, drink›(not sour) 甜的 tián de ‹fruit, flavour›(not dry) 口感甜的 kǒugǎn tián de ‹wine, cider›to taste sweet 尝起来是甜的 to have a sweet tooth 喜欢吃甜食 
② (fragrant) 芳香的 fāngxiāng de ‹fragrance, flower›to smell sweet 闻上去很香 an unpleasantly sweet smell 一种不好闻的香味 
③ (melodious, pleasurable) 甜美的 tiánměi de ‹sound, voice›; 美妙的 měimiào de ‹feeling, love›to be sweet to [somebody's] ear(s) 是某人乐于听到的 
④ (pure, fresh) 清新的 qīngxīn de ‹air, water, smell›; 新鲜的 xīnxiān de ‹milk›
⑤ especially BrE (cute) 可爱的 kě'ài de ‹baby, animal, face, expression›
⑥ (kind) 善良的 shànliáng de ‹person, nature›to be sweet to [somebody]; 对某人友善 to be sweet of [somebody]; 某人很好心 it was sweet of her to offer to help 她主动提供帮助，真是好心人 to keep [somebody] sweet colloquial 讨好某人 
⑦ ironic (for emphasis) [用以加重语气]what had happened? — sweet nothing 发生了什么事？──啥事儿也没有 sweet f. a., sweet Fanny Adams BrE euphemistic colloquial 啥都没有 what did I get out of it? sweet f.a.! 我从中得到了什么？啥都没有！ in one's own sweet time or way colloquial 随心所欲地 to go one's own sweet way 我行我素 
⑧ dated colloquial (infatuated) 着迷的 zháomí de to be sweet on [somebody]; 迷恋某人 
B.  noun 
① Countable BrE (candy) 糖果 tángguǒ a bag of sweets 一包糖果 
② Uncountable and countable BrE (dessert) 甜食 tiánshí 
③ Uncountabledated (darling) 亲爱的 qīn'ài de my sweet 宝贝儿 
sweet 
swēt

▶adjective
1 having the pleasant taste characteristic of sugar or honey; not salty, sour, or bitter: a cup of hot sweet tea 
figurative : a sweet taste of success. 
• (of air, water, or food) fresh, pure, and untainted: lungfuls of the clean, sweet air. 
• [often in combination] smelling pleasant like flowers or perfume; fragrant: sweet-scented flowers.
2 pleasing in general; delightful: it was the sweet life he had always craved. 
• highly satisfying or gratifying: some sweet, short-lived revenge. 
• [often as exclamation] informal used to express approval or admiration; excellent: the mansion has a sweet hot tub 
Yeah, I'd like to come to the party. Sweet! 
• working, moving, or done smoothly or easily: the sweet handling of this motorcycle. 
• (of sound) melodious or harmonious: the sweet notes of the flute. 
• chiefly US denoting music, especially jazz, played at a steady tempo without improvisation.
3 (of a person or action) pleasant and kind or thoughtful: a very sweet nurse came along. 
• (especially of a person or animal) charming and endearing: a sweet little cat. 
• [predicative] (sweet on) informal, dated infatuated or in love with: she seemed quite sweet on him. 
• dear; beloved: my sweet love. 
• archaic used as a respectful form of address: go to thy rest, sweet sir.
4 used for emphasis in various phrases and exclamations: What had happened? Sweet nothing. 
• (one's own sweet ——) used to emphasize the unpredictable individuality of someone's actions: I'd rather carry on in my own sweet way. 
▶noun
1 chiefly British a small shaped piece of confectionery made with sugar: a bag of sweets.
2 (sweets) sweet foods, collectively: Americans eat too many sweets. 
• British a sweet dish forming a course of a meal; a dessert: she served up a lovely sweet made with whipped chestnuts and almond paste.
3 used as an affectionate form of address to a person one is very fond of: hello, my sweet.
4 (the sweet) archaic or literary the sweet part or element of something: you have had the bitter, now comes the sweet. 
• (sweets) the pleasures or delights found in something: the sweets of office. 
PHRASES
sweet dreams used to express good wishes to a person going to bed. sweet sixteen used to refer to the age of sixteen as characterized by prettiness and innocence in a girl.DERIVATIVES sweetish 
ˈswēdiSH 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English swēte, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch zoet,German süss, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin suavis and Greek hēdus .
