table 
BrE ˈteɪb(ə)l, AmE ˈteɪbəl 

A.  noun 
① (piece of furniture) 桌子 zhuōzi a kitchen/garden table 厨房用桌/花园桌 to get or sit round or around a table 围桌坐下 to lay or set the table for dinner 为晚餐摆好餐具 to sit down to table 坐下用餐 children must learn to behave at table 孩子们必须学会用餐规矩 to put [something] on the table BrE (propose) 将…提交讨论 AmE (postpone) 搁置 gēzhì ‹proposal, offer›to turn the tables (on [somebody]) 扭转局面（使之不利于某人） under the table figurative 私底下的 to wait at table BrE, to wait on table AmE 伺候进餐 to lay or put one's cards on the table figurative 摊牌 
② (company at table) 一桌人 yī zhuō rén the whole table enjoyed the joke 全桌人都觉得那个笑话很有趣 a round table conference or discussion 圆桌会议 
③ (list of facts, figures) 表 biǎo to draw up or compile a table 编制表格 to present or give [something] in table form 以表格形式提交某物 
④ Mathematics 乘法表 chéngfǎbiǎo to learn one's tables 熟记乘法表 the six/nine times table 6/9的乘法口诀 
⑤ Sport 名次表 míngcìbiǎo to be top/bottom of the table 位于榜首/排名末位 
B.  transitive verb 
① BrE Politics (submit for discussion) 把…提交讨论 bǎ… tíjiāo tǎolùn ‹motion, report, amendment, proposal›to be tabled for discussion 被提交讨论 
② AmE (postpone) 搁置 gēzhì ‹motion, report, amendment, proposal›
table 
ˈtābəl

▶noun
1 a piece of furniture with a flat top and one or more legs, providing a level surface on which objects may be placed, and that can be used for such purposes as eating, writing, working, or playing games. 
• [in singular] food provided in a restaurant or household: he was reputed to have the finest French table of the time. 
• a group seated at a table for a meal: the whole table was in gales of laughter. 
• (the table) a meeting place or forum for formal discussions held to settle an issue or dispute: the negotiating table. 
• [in singular] Bridge the dummy hand (which is exposed on the table): they made the hand easily with the aid of a club ruff on the table.
2 a set of facts or figures systematically displayed, especially in columns: the population has grown, as shown in table
1 
a table of contents. 
• Computing a collection of data stored in memory as a series of records, each defined by a unique key stored with it.
3 a flat surface, in particular: 
• Architecture a flat, typically rectangular, vertical surface. 
• a horizontal molding, especially a cornice. 
• a slab of wood or stone bearing an inscription. 
• a flat surface of a gem. 
• a cut gem with two flat faces. 
• each half or quarter of a folding board for backgammon. 
▶verb [with object]
1 chiefly US postpone consideration of: I'd like the issue to be tabled for the next few months.
2 British present formally for discussion or consideration at a meeting: an MP tabled an amendment to the bill. 
PHRASES
at table seated at a table eating a meal. lay something on the table
1 make something known so that it can be freely and sensibly discussed.
2 chiefly US postpone something indefinitely. on the table offered for discussion: our offer remains on the table. turn the tables reverse one's position relative to someone else, especially by turning a position of disadvantage into one of advantage: police invited householders to a seminar on how to turn the tables on burglars. under the table
1 informal very drunk: by 3:30 everybody was under the table.
2 (especially of making a payment) secretly or covertly: he accepted a slew of payoffs under the table. 
• another term for under the counter (see counter1). DERIVATIVES tableful 
ˈtāb(ə)lˌfo͝ol 
noun (plural tablefuls) ORIGIN Old English tabule ‘flat slab, inscribed tablet,’ from Latin tabula ‘plank, tablet, list,’ reinforced in Middle English by Old French table .
