tackle 
BrE ˈtak(ə)l, AmE ˈtæk(ə)l 

A.  noun 
① UncountableMechanics (on ship) 索具 suǒjù (for lifting weights) 辘轳 lùlu 
② Uncountable(equipment) (for sport) 体育器械 tǐyù qìxiè (for task) 工具 gōngjù 
③ Countable(challenge) (in soccer, hockey) 阻截 zǔjié (in rugby, American football) 擒抱 qínbào a tackle on [somebody]; 对某人的阻截 a fair/dangerous tackle 正当/危险的阻截 
B.  transitive verb 
① (handle) 处理 chǔlǐ ‹task, problem, fire›; 应对 yìngduì ‹challenge, difficulty›; 整理 zhěnglǐ ‹garden, painting›; 努力吃下 nǔlì chīxia ‹food, meal›to tackle [something] head-on 正面应对某事 
② (confront) 与…交涉 yǔ… jiāoshè to tackle [somebody] about or over [something]; 与某人就某事交涉 
③ Sport (in soccer, hockey) 阻截抢…的球 zǔjié qiǎng… de qiú (in rugby, American football) 擒抱摔倒 qínbào shuāidǎo tackle him! 抢断他！ 
④ (take on) 抓获 zhuāhuò ‹intruder, animal›
C.  intransitive verb (in soccer, hockey) 阻截 zǔjié ; (in rugby, American football) 擒抱 qínbào 
tackle 
ˈtak(ə)l

▶noun
1 the equipment required for a task or sport: fishing tackle.
2 a mechanism consisting of ropes, pulley blocks, hooks, or other things for lifting heavy objects. 
• the running rigging and gear used to work a boat's sails.
3 American Football & Rugby an act of seizing and stopping a player in possession of the ball by knocking them to the ground. 
• (in soccer and other games) an act of taking the ball, or attempting to take the ball, from an opponent.
4 American Football a player who lines up inside the end along the line of scrimmage. 
▶verb [with object] make determined efforts to deal with (a problem or difficult task): police have launched an initiative to tackle rising crime. 
• American Football & Rugby stop the forward progress of (the ball carrier) by seizing them and knocking them to the ground. 
• chiefly Soccer try to take the ball from (an opponent) by intercepting them. DERIVATIVES tackler 
ˈtak(ə)lər 
nounORIGIN Middle English (denoting equipment for a specific task): probably from Middle Low German takel, from taken ‘lay hold of.’ Early senses of the verb (late Middle English) described the provision and handling of a ship's equipment.
