tail 
BrE teɪl, AmE teɪl 

A.  noun 
① Zoology (of animal, bird, fish, reptile) 尾 wěi the sting in the tail figurative 煞风景的结尾 the tail wagging the dog figurative 尾巴摇狗 ［指本末倒置］(to be or keep) on [somebody's] tail 紧跟着某人 to have [somebody]/[something] on one's tail 有某人/某物尾随着 to go off with one's tail between one's legs colloquial 夹着尾巴走开 to turn tail 逃跑 
② (end piece) (of kite, aircraft, queue, procession) 尾部 wěibù (of comet) 彗尾 huìwěi the traffic was nose to tail for mile after mile 车辆首尾相接延绵数英里 
③ especially AmE colloquial (buttocks) 屁股 pìgu a piece of tail AmE pejorative (woman) 娘儿们 
④ colloquial (person following another) 尾随者 wěisuízhě to put a tail on [somebody] 派人盯某人的梢 
B.  tails noun plural 
① (of shirt, coat) 燕尾服 yànwěifú 
② colloquial (man's evening dress) [男子的] 晚礼服 wǎnlǐfú 
③ plus singular verb (sides of a coin) [硬币的] 反面 fǎnmiàn heads or tails? 正面还是反面？ 
C.  transitive verb colloquial 尾随 wěisuí to tail [somebody] to a place 跟踪某人到一个地方 PHRASAL VERBS tail away intransitive verb 
① = tail off 
① 
② (become fainter) 逐渐消失 zhújiàn xiāoshī his voice tailed away to a whisper 他的声音逐渐减弱成了耳语 tail back intransitive verb BrE «vehicles» 排成长队 páichéng chángduì ; «traffic jam» 绵延 miányán lines of cars tailing back from the roundabout 从交通环岛绵延开去的一排排汽车 the traffic jam tailed back to the previous motorway junction 堵塞的车辆一直延伸到前一个高速路口 tail off intransitive verb 
① (decrease) «numbers, attendance, interest» 逐渐减少 zhújiàn jiǎnshǎo 
② (fade) «voice, remarks» 逐渐减弱 zhújiàn jiǎnruò to tail off into silence 渐渐沉寂下来 
tail
1 
tāl

▶noun
1 the hindmost part of an animal, especially when prolonged beyond the rest of the body, such as the flexible extension of the backbone in a vertebrate, the feathers at the hind end of a bird, or a terminal appendage in an insect. 
• a thing resembling an animal's tail in its shape or position, typically something extending downward or outward at the end of something: the trailed tail of a capital Q 
the cars were head to tail. 
• the rear part of an airplane, with the horizontal stabilizer and rudder. 
• the lower or hanging part of a garment, especially the back of a shirt or coat. 
• (tails) informal a tailcoat; a man's formal evening suit with such a coat: the men looked debonair in white tie and tails. 
• the luminous trail of particles following a comet. 
• the lower end of a pool or stream. 
• the exposed end of a slate or tile in a roof.
2 the end of a long train or line of people or vehicles: an armored truck at the tail of the convoy. 
• [in singular] the final, more distant, or weaker part of something: the forecast says we're in for the tail of a hurricane. 
• informal a person secretly following another to observe their movements.
3 informal, chiefly North American a person's buttocks: fireworks followed when the coach kicked Ryan in his tail. 
• vulgar slang a woman's genitals. 
• informal women collectively regarded as a means of sexual gratification: my wife thinks going out with you guys will keep me from chasing tail.
4 (tails) the reverse side of a coin (used when tossing a coin). 
▶verb [with object]
1 informal follow and observe (someone) closely, especially in secret: a flock of paparazzi had tailed them all over Paris. 
• [no object] follow: they went to their favorite cafe—Bill and Sally tailed along.
2 [no object] North American (of an object in flight) drift or curve in a particular direction: the next pitch tailed in on me at the last second.
3 rare provide with a tail: her calligraphy was topped by banners of black ink and tailed like the haunches of fabulous beasts.
4 archaic join (one thing) to another: each new row of houses tailed on its drains to those of its neighbors. 
PHRASES
chase one's (own) tail informal rush around ineffectually. on someone's tail following someone closely: a police car stayed on his tail for half a mile. a piece of tail see piece. the tail wags the dog the less important or subsidiary factor, person, or thing dominates a situation; the usual roles are reversed: the financing system is becoming the tail that wags the dog. with one's tail between one's legs informal in a state of dejection or humiliation.PHRASAL VERBS tail something in (or into) insert the end of a beam, stone, or brick into (a wall).tail off (or away) gradually diminish in amount, strength, or intensity: the economic boom was beginning to tail off.DERIVATIVES tailless 
ˈtālləs 
adjective. taillessness nounORIGIN Old English tæg(e)l, from a Germanic base meaning ‘hair, hairy tail’; related to Middle Low German tagel ‘twisted whip, rope's end.’ The early sense of the verb (early 16th century) was ‘fasten to the back of something.’
