tan
1 
BrE tan, AmE tæn 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(colour) 棕黄色 zōnghuángsè 
② Countable(suntanning of skin) 棕褐色肤色 zōnghèsè fūsè to get a tan 被晒黑 she has a lovely, golden tan 她的皮肤晒成了可爱的金棕色 
B.  adjective 
① (yellowish-brown) 棕黄色的 zōnghuángsè de ‹shoes, fabric, paper›
② AmE (suntanned) 晒黑的 shàihēi de ‹skin, person›
C.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -nn-) 
① (make into leather) 将…制成革 jiāng… zhìchéng gé ‹hide›to tan [somebody's] hide colloquial 打得某人皮开肉绽 
② (make suntanned) 晒黑 shàihēi ‹skin, person›
③ colloquial (beat) 猛揍 měng zòu ‹child›
D.  intransitive verb (present participle etc. -nn-) «skin, person» 晒黑 shàihēi 
tan
1 
tan

▶noun
1 a yellowish-brown color: the overall color scheme of tan and cream. 
• a golden-brown shade of skin developed by pale-skinned people after exposure to the sun.
2 (also tanbark 
ˈtanˌbärk
) bark of oak or other trees, bruised and used as a source of tannin for converting hides into leather. 
• (also spent tan) bark from which the tannin has been extracted, used for covering the ground for walking, riding, playgrounds, etc., and in gardening. 
▶verb (tans, tanning, tanned)
1 [no object] (of a pale-skinned person or their skin) become brown or browner after exposure to the sun: you'll tan very quickly in the pure air. 
• [with object] (usually as adjective tanned) (of the sun) cause (a pale-skinned person or their skin) to become brown or browner: he looked tanned and fit.
2 [with object] convert (animal skin) into leather by soaking in a liquid containing tannic acid, or by the use of other chemicals.
3 [with object] informal, dated beat (someone) repeatedly, especially as a punishment: “If Mickey touches a fishing net, I'll tan his hide!” 
▶adjective North American of a yellowish-brown color: a tan baseball cap with orange piping. 
• (of a pale-skinned person) having golden-brown skin after exposure to the sun: she looks tall, tan, and healthy. DERIVATIVES tannable adjective. tanning 
ˈtaniNG 
noun. tannish adjectiveORIGIN late Old English tannian ‘convert into leather,’ probably from medieval Latin tannare, perhaps of Celtic origin; reinforced in Middle English by Old French tanner. Early use of the noun (late Middle English) was sense
2 of the noun .
