taste 
BrE teɪst, AmE teɪst 
A. noun 
① Uncountable and countable(flavour) 味道 wèidao a strong taste of garlic 浓烈的大蒜味 a bad/foul taste 不好/难闻的味道 a pleasant or nice taste 好味道 a bitter/sour/sweet/mild taste 苦味/酸味/甜味/淡味 to leave a taste in the mouth 在口中留有余味 we won, but the manner of our winning left a nasty taste in the mouth 我们赢了，但是获胜的方式却让人感到不是滋味 
② Uncountable(sense) 味觉 wèijué his cold deprived him of his sense of taste 他感冒了，嘴里尝不出味道 to have a keen/have little sense of taste 味觉敏锐/迟钝 sour/bitter/sweet to the taste 尝起来有酸味/苦味/甜味 add salt to taste 适量加盐 
③ Countableusually singular (sample, small quantity) 少许尝的东西 shǎoxǔ cháng de dōngxi just take a taste of this! 尝一点儿这个！ add just a taste of brandy to the mixture 在混合饮料中稍加一点白兰地 
④ Countablefigurative (brief or first experience) 体验 tǐyàn he got a taste of life on the wild side 他感受到了生活中疯狂的一面 the taste of things to come 对未来事物的体验 
⑤ Countable(liking) 爱好 àihào (preference) 偏爱 piān'ài tastes differ 人各有所好 a taste for/in [something]; 对某物/在某方面的爱好 (not) to [somebody's] taste; （不）合某人的口味 each or everyone to his taste 人各有所好 
⑥ Uncountable(discernment) (with regard to beauty, appropriateness, etc.) 鉴赏力 jiànshǎnglì (with regard to what is acceptable) 品味 pǐnwèi he's got more money than taste 他有钱但没什么品味 to have exquisite taste in clothes 对服装很讲究 to dress in the best (possible) taste 穿着非常雅致 to have good/no taste 品味高雅/没品味 the room had been furnished in or with execrable taste! 房间装修得俗不可耐！ (to be) in good/the best of taste 得体/非常得体 (to be) in bad/the worst of taste 粗俗/粗俗不堪 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (perceive flavour) 有味觉 yǒu wèijué 
② (have specified flavour) 有…的味道 yǒu… de wèidao the drink tastes of mint 饮料有股薄荷味 the wine tastes sour 这葡萄酒有酸味 to taste off 变味 
C.  transitive verb 
① (perceive flavour) 尝出…的味道 chángchū… de wèidao 
② (sample, test flavour) 品尝 pǐncháng 
③ (eat or drink) 吃 chī ‹food›; 喝 hē ‹drink›
④ figurative (experience) 体验 tǐyàn ‹power, freedom, failure, hardship›
taste 
▶noun
1 a distinctive sharp taste: flavor, savor, relish, tang, smack.
2 he was dying for a taste of brandy: mouthful, drop, bit, sip, nip, swallow, touch, soupçon, dash, modicum.
3 it's too sweet for my taste: palate, taste buds, appetite, stomach.
4 a taste for adventure: liking, love, fondness, fancy, desire, preference, penchant, predilection, inclination, partiality; hankering, appetite, hunger, thirst, relish. ANTONYMS dislike.
5 my first taste of prison: experience of/with, impression of; exposure to, contact with, involvement with.
6 the house was furnished with taste: judgment, discrimination, discernment, tastefulness, refinement, finesse, elegance, grace, style. ANTONYMS tastelessness, tackiness.
7 the photo was rejected on grounds of taste: decorum, propriety, etiquette, politeness, delicacy, nicety, sensitivity, discretion, tastefulness. ANTONYMS dislike.
▶verb
1 Adam tasted the wine: sample, test, try, savor; sip, sup.
2 he could taste blood on his lip: perceive, discern, make out, distinguish.
3 a beer that tasted of pumpkin: have a/the flavor of, savor of, smack of, be reminiscent of; suggest.
4 it'll be good to taste real coffee again: consume, drink, partake of; eat, devour.
5 he tasted defeat: experience, encounter, come face to face with, come up against, undergo; know.
WORD LINKS
taste gustatory relating to the sense of tasteWord Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.
