tease 
BrE tiːz, AmE tiz 

A.  transitive verb 
① (provoke) (playfully) 打趣 dǎqù (maliciously) 嘲弄 cháonòng (sexually) 挑逗 tiǎodòu 
② (separate out) 理顺 lǐshùn ‹wool, hair›
③ especially AmE (backcomb) 往后梳 wǎng hòu shū ‹hair›
B.  intransitive verb (provoke) (playfully) 打趣 dǎqù (maliciously) 嘲弄 cháonòng (sexually) 挑逗 tiǎodòu 
C.  noun 
① (joker) 打趣的人 dǎqù de rén 
② colloquial (woman) 卖弄风骚的人 màinong fēngsāo de rén 
③ (act of teasing) 取笑 qǔxiào PHRASAL VERB tease out transitive verb[tease something out], [tease out something] 
① (untangle) 理顺 lǐshùn ‹hair›; 解开 jiěkāi ‹knot›
② figurative (deduce, retrieve) 梳理清楚 shūlǐ qīngchu ‹meaning, information›
tease 
tēz

▶verb [with object]
1 make fun of or attempt to provoke (a person or animal) in a playful way: Brenda teased her father about the powerboat that he bought but seldom used 
[no object] : she was just teasing 
[with direct speech] : “Think you're clever, don't you?” she teased. 
• tempt (someone) sexually with no intention of satisfying the desire aroused.
2 gently pull or comb (something tangled, especially wool or hair) into separate strands: she was teasing out the curls into her usual hairstyle. 
• (tease something out) find something out from a mass of irrelevant information: a historian who tries to tease out the truth. 
• chiefly North American comb (hair) in the reverse direction of its natural growth in order to make it appear fuller. 
• archaic comb (the surface of woven cloth) to raise a nap. 
▶noun informal a person who makes fun of someone playfully or unkindly. 
• a person who tempts someone sexually with no intention of satisfying the desire aroused. 
• [in singular] an act of making fun of or tempting someone: she couldn't resist a gentle tease. DERIVATIVES teasingly 
ˈtēziNGlē 
adverbORIGIN Old English tǣsan ( sense
2 of the verb); related to Dutch teezen and German dialect zeisen, also to teasel. Sense
1 is a development of the earlier and more serious ‘irritate by annoying actions’ (early 17th century), a figurative use of the word's original sense.
