tempt 
BrE tɛm(p)t, AmE tɛm(p)t 
transitive verb 引诱 yǐnyòu can I tempt you to a whisky? 能请你喝一杯威士忌吗？ to be or feel tempted to do [something] 动心想做某事 she tempted me to dive into the water 她诱使我潜入水下 to tempt [somebody] into [something]/into doing [something]; 引诱某人做某事 to tempt [somebody] into engineering/a life of crime 吸引某人学习工程学/引诱某人过犯罪的生活 he tempted me with my favourite food 他用我最爱吃的东西引诱我 to tempt fate or providence 冒险 
tempt 
▶verb
1 the manager tried to tempt him to stay: entice, persuade, convince, inveigle, induce, cajole, coax, woo; informal sweet-talk. ANTONYMS discourage, deter.
2 more customers are being tempted by credit: allure, attract, appeal to, whet the appetite of; lure, seduce, beguile, tantalize, draw. ANTONYMS repel, put off.CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD tempt, allure, beguile, entice, inveigle, lure, seduce When we are under the influence of a powerful attraction, particularly to something that is wrong or unwise, we are tempted. Entice implies that a crafty or skillful person has attracted us by offering a reward or pleasure (she was enticed into joining the group by a personal plea from its handsome leader), while inveigle suggests that we are enticed through the use of deception or cajolery (inveigled into supporting the plan). If someone lures us, it suggests that we have been tempted or influenced for fraudulent or destructive purposes or attracted to something harmful or evil (lured by gang members). Allure may also suggest that we have been deliberately tempted against our will, but the connotations here are often sexual (allured by her dark green eyes). Seduce carries heavy sexual connotations (seduced by an older woman), although it can simply mean prompted to action against our will (seduced by a clever sales pitch). While beguile at one time referred exclusively to the use of deception to lead someone astray, nowadays it can also refer to the use of subtle devices to lead someone on (a local festival designed to beguile the tourists).These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
