terminal 
BrE ˈtəːmɪn(ə)l, AmE ˈtərmənl 

A.  adjective 
① (fatal) 晚期的 wǎnqī de ‹disease, cancer›a terminal patient 晚期病人 terminal boredom humorous 极度的无聊 
② (furthest, last) 终点的 zhōngdiǎn de ‹velocity›; 到期的 dàoqī de ‹date›(at end of stem) 顶生的 dǐngshēng de ‹bud, flower, inflorescence, cluster›(at end of word) 词尾的 cíwěi de ‹string, element›the terminal point 终点 
③ colloquial (extreme) 不可救药的 bù kě jiù yào de to be in terminal decline 一蹶不振 a terminal crisis 致命危机 
④ (happening every school term) 学期末的 xuéqī mò de ‹examination›; (happening every judicial term) 开庭期末的 kāitíngqī mò de ‹report›
B.  noun 
① (building) (at bus or train station) 终点站 zhōngdiǎnzhàn (at airport) 航空站 hángkōngzhàn (at port) 码头 mǎtou an oil/a freight terminal 输油管终端/货运站 the terminal building (at airport) 航站楼 (at train or bus station) 车站大楼 
② (in electrical system) 端子 duānzi 
③ (device in computer system) 终端 zhōngduān 
terminal 
ˈtərmənl

▶adjective
1 [attributive] of, forming, or situated at the end or extremity of something: a terminal date 
the terminal tip of the probe. 
• of or forming a transportation terminal: terminal platforms. 
• Zoology situated at, forming, or denoting the end of a part or series of parts furthest from the center of the body. 
• Botany (of a flower, inflorescence, etc.) borne at the end of a stem or branch. Often contrasted with axillary.
2 (of a disease) predicted to lead to death, especially slowly; incurable: terminal cancer. 
• [attributive] suffering from or relating to a terminal disease: a hospice for terminal cases. 
• [attributive] (of a condition) forming the last stage of a terminal disease. 
• informal extreme and usually beyond cure or alteration (used to emphasize the extent of something regarded as bad or unfortunate): you're making a terminal ass of yourself. 
▶noun
1 an end or extremity of something, in particular: 
• the end of a railroad or other transport route, or a station at such a point. 
• a departure and arrival building for air passengers at an airport. 
• an installation where oil or gas is stored at the end of a pipeline or at a port.
2 a point of connection for closing an electric circuit.
3 a device at which a user enters data or commands for a computer system and that displays the received output.
4 (also terminal figure) another term for terminus ( sense 3). ORIGIN early 19th century: from Latin terminalis, from terminus ‘end, boundary.’
