text 
BrE tɛkst, AmE tɛkst 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable(written matter) 文本 wénběn (in computer form) 文档 wéndàng 
② Countable(wording) 原文 yuánwén 
③ Countable(main content) 正文 zhèngwén 
④ Countable(book) 书籍 shūjí (textbook) 课本 kèběn a set text 指定书目 
⑤ Countable(passage from the Bible) [宗教仪式上引用的] 《圣经》经文 《 Shèngjīng 》 jīngwén ; figurative (subject or theme for discussion) 论题 lùntí 
⑥ Countable(mobile phone message) 短信息 duǎnxìnxī 
B.  transitive verb 给…发短信 gěi… fā duǎnxìn ‹person›; 发送 fāsòng ‹message, reply›
text 
tekst

▶noun
1 a book or other written or printed work, regarded in terms of its content rather than its physical form: a text that explores pain and grief. 
• a piece of written or printed material regarded as conveying the authentic or primary form of a particular work: in some passages it is difficult to establish the original text 
the text of the lecture was available to guests. 
• written or printed words, typically forming a connected piece of work: stylistic features of journalistic text. 
• Computing data in the form of words or alphabetic characters.
2 [in singular] the main body of a book or other piece of writing, as distinct from other material such as notes, appendices, and illustrations: the pictures are clear and relate well to the text. 
• a script or libretto.
3 a written work chosen or assigned as a subject of study: the book is intended as a secondary text for religion courses. 
• a textbook. 
• a passage from the Bible or other religious work, especially when used as the subject of a sermon. 
• a subject or theme for a discussion or exposition: he took as his text the fact that Australia is paradise.
4 a text message.
5 (also text-hand) fine, large handwriting, used especially for manuscripts. 
▶verb [with object] send a text message to: I thought it was fantastic that he took the trouble to text me 
(as noun texting) : stricter regulations against texting while driving. DERIVATIVES texter noun. textless adjectiveORIGIN late Middle English: from Old Northern French texte, from Latin textus ‘tissue, literary style’ (in medieval Latin, ‘Gospel’), from text- ‘woven,’ from the verb texere .
