that 
AmE ðæt 

A.  determiner(plural those) 
① (identifying person or thing, referring to the more distant of two, person or thing previously mentioned) 那（个） nà(gè) that chair/woman over there 那边的那把椅子/那个女人 I said that dress! (for emphasis) 我说的是那件连衣裙！ not that one! 不是那个！ I prefer that colour to this one 我更喜欢那种颜色而不是这种 that same day 那同一天 you can't do it that way 你不能那样做 he went that way 他朝那边走了 at that moment/time 在那一刻/时候 that train crash last year 去年的那次火车撞车事故 that lazy husband of hers 她那个懒惰的丈夫 it's that Mr Jones from down the road 是路那头的那位琼斯先生 
② formal (categorizing person or thing) 那种的 nà zhǒng de those patients who are able to walk 那些能行走的病人 
B.  pronoun(plural those) 
① (identifying person or thing, referring to the more distant of two, person or thing previously mentioned) 那（个） nà(gè) what's that? 那是什么？ who's that? 是谁啊？ is that John? 那是约翰吗？ is that you, John? 是你吗，约翰？ we prefer this to that 我们更喜欢这个而不是那个 not this, that! (for emphasis) 不是这个，是那一个！ that's what he said 他就是这样说的 that's bureaucrats for you! 那就是你所谓的官僚！ which boys? — those over there 哪些男孩？──那边的那些 those are the books I wanted 那些书就是我想要的 who told you that? 谁告诉你那事的？ before that, he had always lived in London 在那之前，他一直住在伦敦 he never went there again after that 打那以后他再也没去过那儿 he's not as greedy as (all) that! 他才没那么贪心呢！ … and (all) that BrE colloquial …等等 did you bring the contract and (all) that? 你把合同之类的都带来了吗？ at that (furthermore) 而且 (in fact) 实际上 (in reaction) 紧接着 he managed to buy a car after all, and a nice one at that 他终究设法买了一辆车，而且是辆很好的车 with that 紧接着 with that he got up and left 然后他起身离开了 that is (to say) … (giving explanation) 也就是说… (adding information) 那是说… you’ll find her very helpful; if she’s not too busy, that is 你会发现她很乐于助人；那是说如果她不太忙的话 that's it! (that's right) 对了！ (that's the end) 到此为止！ (that's enough) 够了！ (that's the reason) 就是那个原因！ that's that! colloquial 就这么定了！ 
② formal (categorizing person or thing) 那种 nà zhǒng those who …; 那些…的人 salaries are higher here than those in my country 这儿的薪水比我们国家的高 
③ especially BrE colloquial (indeed) 那样 nàyàng he's a fussy man — he is that 他是个挑剔的人──的确如此 
C.  relative pronoun 
① (introducing defining clause) [引导限定性定语从句]the house that they bought 他们买的房子 the woman that won 获胜的那个女人 and fool that I am, I believed him 我真傻，竟然相信了他 Mrs Jones, Miss Simpson that was dated 琼斯太太，即原来的辛普森小姐 
② (for which, in which, when) [代替for which, in which, when引导定语从句]the reason that I phoned 我打电话的原因 the way that she works 她的工作方式 the night that she arrived 她到达的那晚 
D.  conjunction 
① (expressing statement or hypothesis, reason or cause, result, purpose) [引导表示陈述、假设、原因、结果、目的的从句]he said that he had finished 他说他已经完成了 it's likely that they are out 他们很可能出去了 it's important that they should realize 重要的是他们应当意识到 he seemed pleased that I wanted to continue 我想继续下去，为此他似乎很高兴 it's just that I'm a bit scared 只不过我有点害怕 it was so cold that the pipes froze 天气冷得连水管都冻住了 
② (expressing surprise) 竟然 jìngrán that it should come to this! 事情怎么会这样啊！ that she should treat me so badly! 她怎么能如此恶劣地对待我！ 
③ literary (expressing wish) 要是…就好了 yàoshi… jiù hǎo le oh that I could fly! 我会飞的话该多好啊！ oh that he would come 哦，他如果能来该多好 
E.  adverb 
① (to such a degree, extent) 那么 nàme you're not that stupid 你没那么蠢 I can't do that much work in one day 我一天之内做不了那么多工作 she's that much smaller than me 她个头比我小那么多 
② (very) 非常 fēicháng not (all) that 不很 it isn’t (all) that cold 天气不怎么冷 
③ BrE colloquial (so very) 如此 rúcǐ he was that ill that he had to go into hospital 他病得那么厉害，只好去住院 
that 
T͟Hat T͟Hət

▶pronoun (plural those 
T͟Hōz
)
1 used to identify a specific person or thing observed by the speaker: that's his wife over there. 
• referring to the more distant of two things near to the speaker (the other, if specified, being identified by “this”): this is stronger than that.
2 referring to a specific thing previously mentioned, known, or understood: that's a good idea 
what are we going to do about that?
3 [often with clause] used in singling out someone or something and ascribing a distinctive feature to them: it is part of human nature to be attracted to that which is aesthetically pleasing 
his appearance was that of an undergrown man 
they care about the rights of those less privileged than themselves.
4 (plural that) [relative pronoun] used to introduce a defining or restrictive clause, especially one essential to identification. 
• instead of “which,” “who,” or “whom”: the book that I've just written. 
• instead of “when” after an expression of time: the year that Anna was born. 
▶det. (plural those)
1 used to identify a specific person or thing observed or heard by the speaker: look at that man there 
how much are those brushes? 
• referring to the more distant of two things near to the speaker (the other, if specified, being identified by “this”).
2 referring to a specific thing previously mentioned, known, or understood: he lived in Mysore at that time 
seven people died in that incident.
3 [usually with clause] used in singling out someone or something and ascribing a distinctive feature to them: I have always envied those people who make their own bread.
4 referring to a specific person or thing assumed as understood or familiar to the person being addressed: where is that son of yours? 
I let him spend all that money on me 
Dad got that hunted look. 
▶adverb [as submodifier] to such a degree; so: I would not go that far. 
• used with a gesture to indicate size: it was that big, perhaps even bigger. 
• [with negative] informal very: he wasn't that far away. 
▶conjunction
1 introducing a subordinate clause expressing a statement or hypothesis: she said that she was satisfied 
it is possible that we have misunderstood. 
• expressing a reason or cause: he seemed pleased that I wanted to continue. 
• expressing a result: she was so tired that she couldn't think. 
• [usually with modal] expressing a purpose, hope, or intention: we pray that the coming year may be a year of peace 
I eat that I may live.
2 [usually with modal] literary expressing a wish or regret: oh that he could be restored to health. 
PHRASES
and all that informal and that sort of thing; and so on: other people depend on them for food and clothing and all that.at that see at1. like that
1 of that nature or in that manner: we need more people like that 
don't talk like that.
2 informal with no preparation or introduction; instantly or effortlessly: he can't just leave like that. not all that —— not very ——: it was not all that long ago. that is (or that is to say) used to introduce or follow a clarification, interpretation, or correction of something already said: androcentric—that is to say, male-dominated—concepts 
He was a long-haired kid with freckles. Last time I saw him, that is.that said even so (introducing a concessive statement): It's just a gimmick. That said, I'd love to do it. that's it see it1. that's that there is nothing more to do or say about the matter. —— that was as the specified person or thing was formerly known: General Dunstaple had married Miss Hughes that was. that will do no more is needed or desirable.ORIGIN Old English thæt, nominative and accusative singular neuter of se ‘the,’ of Germanic origin; related to Dutch dat and German das . usage:
1 The word that can be omitted in standard English where it introduces a subordinate clause, as in she said (that) she was satisfied. That can also be dropped in a relative clause where it is the object of the clause, as in the book (that) I've just written. That, however, is obligatory when it is the subject of the relative clause, as in the company that employs Jack.
2 It is sometimes argued that, in relative clauses, that should be used for nonhuman references and who should be used for human references: a house that overlooks the park, but the woman who lives next door. In practice, while it is true to say that who is restricted to human references, the function of that is flexible. It has been used for both human and nonhuman references since at least the 11th century. In standard English, it is interchangeable with who in this context.
3 Is there any difference between the use of that and which in sentences such as any book that gets children reading is worth having, and any book which gets children reading is worth having? The general rule is that, in restrictive relative clauses, where the relative clause serves to define or restrict the reference to the particular one described, that is the preferred relative pronoun. However, in nonrestrictive relative clauses, where the relative clause serves only to give additional information, which must be used: this book, which is set in the last century, is very popular with teenagers, but not this book, that is set in the last century, is very popular with teenagers. For more details, see usage at restrictive .
