the 
BrE ðə, ðɪ, ðiː, AmE ði, ðə 
determiner 
① (referring to person or thing mentioned or known, to unique person or thing, or specifying person or thing) [指已提及或已知的人或事物；指独一无二的人或事物；指特定的人或事物]two chapters of the book 该书的两章 I met them at the supermarket 我在那家超市遇到他们 the Queen 女王 the Nile 尼罗河 the house at the end of the street 街道尽头的那所房子 the fastest train 最快的列车 you’re the third person to ask me that 你是第三个问我那件事的人 
② colloquial (replacing possessive) I'm meeting the boss ［指代物主代词] 我要见老板 wǒ yào jiàn lǎobǎn how's the family? 家里人好吗？ jiālirén hǎo ma ？ 
③ (with family name) the Hapsburgs/Buntings ［用于姓氏前] 哈布斯堡/邦廷一家 Hābùsībǎo/Bāngtíng yī jiā 
④ (used after name) George the Sixth ［用于姓名之后] 乔治六世 Qiáozhì liù shì Alexander the Great 亚历山大大帝 Yàlìshāndà dàdì 
⑤ (preceding clause or phrase) the fuss that he made of her ［用于短语或从句之前] 他对她的宠爱 tā duì tā de chǒng'ài the top of a bus 公共汽车的顶部 gōnggòng qìchē de dǐngbù 
⑥ (in generalized references) to play the violin ［用于某事物的泛指或总称] 拉小提琴 lā xiǎotíqín I heard it on the radio 我从广播里听到的 the opera/ballet 歌剧/芭蕾舞剧 gējù/bālěiwǔjù the future 未来 wèilái 
⑦ (referring to species, class, or groups, or forming abstract noun) the dolphin/African elephant ［用于单数名词前，指一类物种、一个阶层或一类人，或用于构成抽象名词] 海豚/非洲象 hǎitún/fēizhōuxiàng the French 法国人 Fǎguórén the wounded/handicapped 伤员/残疾人 shāngyuán/cánjírén the impossible 不可能的事 bù kěnéng de shì she buys only the best 她只买最好的东西 
⑧ (with rates) ［表示计量单位］ to do 120 miles to the gallon 每加仑油跑120英里 35p in the pound 每磅35便士 měi bàng
3
5 biànshì you get paid by the hour 你领时薪 nǐ lǐng shíxīn 
⑨ (referring to decade) the fifties ［指年代] 五十年代 wǔshí niándài 
⑩ (enough) 足够的 zúgòu de he hadn't the courage to refuse 他没有勇气拒绝 we don't have the money for a holiday 我们没有钱去度假 
⑪ (best, greatest) 最好的 zuì hǎo de she's the violinist of the century 她是本世纪最出色的小提琴家 the book of the year 年度最佳书籍 
⑫ (famous) 有名的 yǒumíng de do you mean the William Blake? 你说的是那个大名鼎鼎的威廉布莱克吗？ 
⑬ (with comparative adj or adv) ［用于比较级前］ all the …; 更加… gèngjiā… the news made her all the sadder 这消息让她更加悲伤 none the … 毫不… háo bù… he seems none the worse for the experience 这次经历似乎对他没有丝毫影响 
⑭ (in double comparatives) ［两个比较级连用］ the more …, the more …; 越…越… yuè… yuè… the more I learn, the less I understand 我越学越糊涂 wǒ yuè xué yuè hútu the sooner, the better 越快越好 yuè kuài yuè hǎo 
the 
T͟Hē T͟Hə 
[called the definite article] 
▶det.
1 denoting one or more people or things already mentioned or assumed to be common knowledge: what's the matter? 
call the doctor 
the phone rang. Compare with a1. 
• used to refer to a person, place, or thing that is unique: the Queen 
the Mona Lisa 
the Nile. 
• informal denoting a disease or affliction: I've got the flu. 
• (with a unit of time) the present; the current: dish of the day 
man of the moment. 
• informal used instead of a possessive to refer to someone with whom the speaker or person addressed is associated: I'm meeting the boss 
how's the family? 
• used with a surname to refer to a family or married couple: the Johnsons were not wealthy. 
• used before the surname of the chief of a Scottish or Irish clan: the O'Donoghue.
2 used to point forward to a following qualifying or defining clause or phrase: the fuss that he made of her 
the top of a bus 
I have done the best I could. 
• (chiefly with rulers and family members with the same name) used after a name to qualify it: George the Sixth 
Edward the Confessor 
Jack the Ripper.
3 used to make a generalized reference to something rather than identifying a particular instance: he taught himself to play the violin 
worry about the future. 
• used with a singular noun to indicate that it represents a whole species or class: they placed the African elephant on their endangered list. 
• used with an adjective to refer to those people who are of the type described: the unemployed. 
• used with an adjective to refer to something of the class or quality described: they are trying to accomplish the impossible. 
• used with the name of a unit to state a rate: they can do 120 miles to the gallon.
4 enough of (a particular thing): he hoped to publish monthly, if only he could find the money.
5 (pronounced stressing “the”) used to indicate that someone or something is the best known or most important of that name or type: he was the hot young piano prospect in jazz.
6 used adverbially with comparatives to indicate how one amount or degree of something varies in relation to another: the more she thought about it, the more devastating it became. 
• (usually all the ——) used to emphasize the amount or degree to which something is affected: commodities made all the more desirable by their rarity. ORIGIN Old English (Northumbrian and North Mercian dialects) thē; related to Dutch de, dat, and German der, die, das . usage: The article the is usually pronounced 
T͟Hə
before a consonant sound ( please pass the potatoes) and 
T͟Hē
before a vowel sound ( please pass the asparagus). Regardless of consonant and vowel sounds, when the desired effect following the is to emphasize exclusivity, the pronunciation is 
T͟Hē
: she's not just any expert in vegetation management, she's the expert.
