then 
BrE ðɛn, AmE ðɛn 

A.  adverb 
① (at that time) (in the past) 当时 dāngshí (in the future) 到那时 dào nà shí we were living in Dublin then 我们那时住在都柏林 people were idealistic then 当时人们耽于空想 X, then leader of the party 某某，当时的该党领袖 I thought so then, and I still think so 我过去这么想，现在还是这么想 just then 就在那时 from then on 从那时起 since then 自那以后 back then 当初 by or until then 到那时 dào nà shí they will let us know by then 届时他们会让我们知道的 between then and … 从那时起到…期间 between now and then 从现在起到那时 then and there 立即 before then 在那之前 even then it still won't be completely finished 即使到那时还是不会全部完成 
② (in sequences: afterwards, next) 然后 ránhòu wash, then slice finely 先清洗，然后切成薄片 then came the big news 接着传来了重大新闻 she was an editor, then a teacher 她当过编辑，后来做了教师 we will then start the next project 我们接下来会开始下一个项目 then, after that … 接着，在那之后… and then what? 然后又怎么样？ and then some colloquial 而且还不止这些 
③ (in that case, rounding off, focusing on a topic) 那么 nàme I saw them if not yesterday, then the day before 我不是在昨天就是在前天见到过他们 if it's a problem for you, then say so 如果这对你是个问题的话，那就直说吧 if x = 3, then 6x =
18 Mathematics 若x＝3，则6x＝18 when we know what the problem is, then we can find a solution 我们弄清问题就能找到解决方法 then why did you tell her? 那你为什么要告诉她呢？ well, try this then 好吧，那就试试这个 is it all arranged then? 那么一切都安排好了？ till Tuesday then 那就周二见吧 now then, what's all this? 那这是怎么一回事？ all right then, who'd like some coffee? 那好吧，谁想喝咖啡？ 
④ (summarizing statement: therefore) 总之 zǒngzhī these, then, are the results of the policy 总之，这些就是这一政策的结果 overall then it would seem that … 而总体上看似乎… 
⑤ (in addition, besides) 而且 érqiě and then there's the cost to consider 况且还要考虑成本 
⑥ (on the other hand) 另外 lìngwài she's good, but then so is he 她不错，可他也一样好 he looks anxious, but then (again) he always does 他看上去很焦急，不过他一贯如此 
B.  adjective attributive 当时的 dāngshí de the then mayor of New York, Mr X 当时的纽约市市长某某先生 they took over the then state-owned sugar factory 他们接管了那家当时属国有的糖厂 
then 
T͟Hen

▶adverb
1 at that time; at the time in question: I was living in Cairo then 
[after preposition] : Phoebe by then was exhausted 
[as adjective] : a hotel where the then prime minister, Margaret Thatcher, was staying.
2 after that; next; afterward: she won the first and then the second game. 
• also; in addition: I'm paid a generous salary, and then there's the money I've made at the races.
3 in that case; therefore: if you do what I tell you, then there's nothing to worry about 
well, that's okay then. 
• used at the end of a sentence to emphasize an inference being drawn: so you're still here, then. 
• used to finish off a conversation: see you in an hour, then. 
PHRASES
then and there immediately: she made up her mind then and there.ORIGIN Old English thænne, thanne, thonne, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch dan and German dann, also to that and the .
