there 
BrE ðɛː, ðə, AmE ðɛr 

A.  adverb 
① (that place or position) 那里 nàli (at or in that place) 在那里 zài nàli (to that place) 到那里 dào nàli far/two kilometres from there 离那里很远/两公里 I live near there 我住在那附近 up/down to there 到那里 dào nàli put it in there 把它放在那里面 in there please (ushering sb.) 请进 put the bags on there 把包放在那上面 we’re almost there 我们就快到了 are you still there? (on phone) 你还在听吗？ back there 在后面 the fact is, they’re there to make money 事实是，他们就是要赚钱 to go there and back in an hour 一小时内去那儿一个来回 to stand/stop there 站/停在那儿 sign there please 请在那儿签名 my colleague there will show you 我在那儿的同事会给你看 what does it say there? 那上面怎么说的？ there it is! 就在那儿！ there you are! (seeing sb. arrive) 你来了呀！ there's a bus coming 有辆公共汽车开过来了 that there contraption colloquial 那小玩意儿 there and then 立即 been there, done that colloquial 没意思 to be there for [somebody] 随时在某人左右 to have been there before colloquial 以前也经历过 
② (existing or available) 可得的 kě dé de the money’s there if you need it 如果你需要钱的话就来取 take the offer while it's there 趁报价还没撤销赶快接受吧 
③ (at that point) 在那一点上 zài nà yīdiǎn shang (in that respect) 在那方面 zài nà fāngmiàn there we must finish 我们到此得结束了 I'd like to interrupt you there 我想在这里插一句话 there was our chance 那就是我们的机会 I think you're wrong there 我认为在那一点上你错了 you've got me there! 你把我难倒了！ there again 但反过来 he may be guilty; there again he may not 他可能有罪，但也可能无罪 
④ (attracting sb.'s attention) [用以引起注意]hello there! 你好！ hey, you there! 嘿，说你呢！ 
⑤ (giving sth.) 拿去吧 ná qù ba there you are or go 给你 there's the book you wanted to borrow 这就是你想借的书 
⑥ (on hearing sth.) [用以引起注意]there goes the phone 电话铃响啦 listen, there's my sister calling 听，我姐姐在叫呢 
⑦ (pointing out fact or situation) [用以指出某种情况或形势]there's why! 就是这个原因！ so, there you have it: that’s how it all started 所以，你看，一切就是那样开始的 there it is colloquial 情况就是这样 there you are or go colloquial (explaining or showing sth.) 你看 (expressing resignation) 就这样吧 there you are! I told you it was easy! 怎么样！我告诉过你很简单的！ there you go again colloquial 你又来了 finish your lunch, there’s a good boy colloquial 把午饭吃完，乖孩子 there’s devotion for you colloquial 这才叫忠诚 there’s gratitude for you! ironic 这真称得上感激啊！ 
B.  pronoun [表示存在或发生]there is or are … 有… there is some left 还剩下一些 there’s only four days left colloquial 只剩四天了 there's no denying that … 不可否认… there seems or appears to be … 似乎有… there remains the problem of finance formal 还有财政问题没解决 once upon a time there was … literary 从前有… suddenly there appeared a fairy literary 突然出现了一位仙女 
C.  exclamation 
① (expressing satisfaction, annoyance) 你瞧 nǐ qiáo there! I told you! 看到了吧！我告诉过你的！ there! you’ve gone and woken the baby! 瞧！你竟然一去就把宝宝吵醒了！ 
② colloquial (comforting) 好了 hǎole there, there! 好啦，好啦！ 
there 
T͟Her

▶adverb
1 in, at, or to that place or position: we went on to Paris and stayed there eleven days 
[after preposition] : I'm not going in there—it's freezing 
figurative : the opportunity is right there in front of you. 
• used when pointing or gesturing to indicate the place in mind: there on the right 
if anyone wants out, there's the door! 
• at that point (in speech, performance, writing, etc.): “I'm quite—” There she stopped. 
• in that respect; on that issue: I don't agree with you there. 
• [with infinitive] used to indicate one's role in a particular situation: at the end of the day, we are there to make money.
2 used in attracting someone's attention or calling attention to someone or something: hello there! 
there goes the phone.
3 (usually there is/are) used to indicate the fact or existence of something: there's a restaurant around the corner 
there comes a point where you give up. 
▶exclam.
1 used to focus attention on something and express satisfaction or annoyance at it: there, I told you she wouldn't mind!
2 used to comfort someone: there, there, you must take all of this philosophically. 
PHRASES
been there, done that informal used to express past experience of or familiarity with something, especially something now regarded as boring or unwelcome. be there for be available to provide support or comfort for (someone). have been there before informal know all about a situation from experience. here and there see here. not all there (of a person) not fully alert and functioning: he's not all there—give him a couple of days to readjust. so there informal used to express one's defiance or awareness that someone will not like what one has decided or is saying: you can't share, so there! there and then immediately. there goes —— used to express the destruction or failure of something: there goes my career. there it is that is the situation: pretty ridiculous, I know, but there it is. there or thereabouts in or very near a particular place or position. 
• approximately: forty years, there or thereabouts, had elapsed. there you are (or go) informal
1 this is what you wanted: there you are—that'll be $3.80 please.
2 expressing confirmation, triumph, or resignation: there you are! I told you the problem was a political one 
sometimes it is embarrassing, but there you go.there you go again used to criticize someone for behaving in a way that is typical of them. there you have it used to emphasize or draw attention to a particular fact: so there you have it—the ultimate grand unified theory. 
• used to draw attention to the simplicity of a process or action: simply turn the handle three times and there you have it.ORIGIN Old English thǣr, thēr, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch daar and German da, also to that and the . usage: On the differences between their, they're, and there, see usage at they .
