they 
BrE ðeɪ, AmE ðeɪ 
pronoun 
① (men, boys, people in general) 他们 tāmen (women, girls) 她们 tāmen (animals, things) 它们 tāmen they go on the bottom shelf 这些东西放在底层架子上 here/there they are! 他们在这儿/那儿呢！ they won't be there 他们不会在那里 she bought one, but they didn't 她买了一个，但他们没买 things ain’t what they used to be colloquial 时过境迁 
② (person, animal of unspecified sex) [指性别不详者]anyone can join if they are a resident 任何常住居民都可参加 ask a friend if they can help 问问有没有朋友能帮忙 
③ (people in general) 人们 rénmen the rest, as they say, is history 后来的事就尽人皆知，不须赘述了 
④ (people in authority, experts) [指有权势有地位者]they cut my water off 管事的人把我的水停了 I asked whether they could change my ticket 我问过票务是否能给我换票 they now say that red wine is good for you 如今专家说红葡萄酒有益健康 
they 
T͟Hā

▶pronoun [third person plural]
1 used to refer to two or more people or things previously mentioned or easily identified: the two men could get life sentences if they are convicted. 
• people in general: the rest, as they say, is history. 
• informal a group of people in authority regarded collectively: they cut my water off.
2 [singular] used to refer to a person of unspecified gender: ask someone if they could help. ORIGIN Middle English: from Old Norse their, nominative plural masculine of sá; related to them and their, also to that and the . usage:
1 The word they (with its counterparts them, their, and themselves) as a singular pronoun to refer to a person of unspecified gender has been used since at least the 16th century. In the late 20th century, as the traditional use of he to refer to a person of either sex came under scrutiny on the grounds of sexism, this use of they has become more common. It is now generally accepted in contexts where it follows an indefinite pronoun such as anyone, no one, someone, or a person: anyone can join if they are a resident; each to their own. In other contexts, coming after singular nouns, the use of they is now common, although less widely accepted, especially in formal contexts. Sentences such as ask a friend if they could help are still criticized for being ungrammatical. Nevertheless, in view of the growing acceptance of they and its obvious practical advantages, they is used in this dictionary in many cases where he would have been used formerly. See also usage at he and she.2 Don't confuse their, they're, and there. Their is a possessive pronoun: I like their new car. They're is a contraction of 'they are': they're parking the car. There is an adverb meaning 'at that place': park the car over there.
