thin 
BrE θɪn, AmE θɪn 

A.  adjective 
① (slim, bony) 瘦的 shòu de ‹person›he's very thin in the face 他脸很瘦 a man with a long thin nose 长着瘦削高鼻子的男人 to be as thin as a rake 骨瘦如柴 
② (not thick) 细的 xì de ‹stripe, stick, cord›; 薄的 báo de ‹layer, paper, lips›a thin trickle 涓涓细流 (it's) the thin end of the wedge figurative （这是）冰山一角 
③ (watery) 稀的 xī de ‹liquid, gravy, soup, oil›thin blood 稀薄的血 a bowl of thin gruel 一碗稀粥 
④ (fine) 稀薄的 xībó de to vanish or disappear into thin air 消失得无影无踪 
⑤ (sparse) 稀疏的 xīshū de ‹hair, forest, population›a thin straggly beard 稀疏蓬乱的胡须 to be or get thin on top colloquial 开始谢顶 to be thin on the ground 寥寥无几 to get or become or grow thinner 变得更加稀少 
⑥ figurative (unconvincing) 空泛的 kōngfàn de ‹storyline›; 空洞的 kōngdòng de ‹excuse, argument›a thin alibi/disguise 空洞的托词/容易识破的伪装 to have a thin time of it (not very fortunate) 不太走运 (not very prosperous) 处境艰难 
⑦ (in tone) (high-pitched) 尖细的 jiānxì de (weak) 微弱的 wēiruò de 
⑧ Finance 不景气的 bùjǐngqì de ‹trading›
B.  adverb colloquial 薄薄地 báobáo de to spread/cut [something] thin 薄薄地涂一层某物/把某物切成薄片 
C.  transitive verb 
① (dilute) 稀释 xīshì ‹paint›; 使…变淡 shǐ… biàndàn ‹sauce, soup›
② (make less dense) 使…稀疏 shǐ… xīshū ‹plants, vegetation›
D.  intransitive verb «fog, cloud» 变稀薄 biàn xībó ; «crowd» 变稀少 biàn xīshǎo ; «hair» 变稀疏 biàn xīshū PHRASAL VERBS thin down 
A.  transitive verb[thin something down], [thin down something] 稀释 xīshì ‹paint›; 使…变淡 shǐ… biàndàn ‹sauce, soup›
B.  intransitive verb «person» 消瘦 xiāoshòu thin out 
A.  transitive verb[thin something out], [thin out something] 使…稀疏 shǐ… xīshū ‹seedlings, plants, population›
B.  intransitive verb «fog, crowd» 散开 sànkāi ; «traffic» 变稀少 biàn xīshǎo 
thin 
THin

▶adjective (thinner, thinnest)
1 having opposite surfaces or sides close together; of little thickness or depth: thin slices of bread. 
• (of a person) having little, or too little, flesh or fat on their body: she was painfully thin. 
• (of a garment or other knitted or woven item) made of light material for coolness or elegance. 
• (of a garment) having had a considerable amount of fabric worn away. 
• (of script or type) consisting of narrow lines: tall, thin lettering.
2 having few parts or members relative to the area covered or filled; sparse: a depressingly thin crowd 
his hair was going thin. 
• not dense: the thin cold air of the mountains. 
• containing much liquid and not much solid substance: thin soup. 
• Climbing denoting a route on which the holds are small or scarce.
3 (of a sound) faint and high-pitched: a thin, reedy little voice. 
• (of a smile) weak and forced. 
• too weak to justify a result or effect; inadequate: the evidence is rather thin. 
▶adverb [often in combination] with little thickness or depth: thin-sliced ham 
cut it as thin as possible. 
▶verb (thins, thinning, thinned)
1 make or become less dense, crowded, or numerous: [with object] : the remorseless fire of archers thinned their ranks 
[no object] : the trees began to thin out 
(as adjective thinning) : thinning hair. 
• [with object] remove some plants from (a row or area) to allow the others more room to grow: thin out overwintered rows of peas. 
• make or become weaker or more watery: [with object] : if the soup is too thick, add a little water to thin it down 
[no object] : the blood thins.
2 make or become smaller in width or thickness: [with object] : their effect in thinning the ozone layer is probably slowing the global warming trend 
[no object] : the trees have thinned and diminished in size.
3 [with object] Golf hit (a ball) above its center. 
PHRASES
on thin ice see ice. thin air used to refer to the state of being invisible or nonexistent: she just vanished into thin air 
they seemed to pluck numbers out of thin air. the thin blue line informal used to refer to the police, typically in the context of situations of civil unrest. thin end of the wedge see wedge1. thin on top informal balding.DERIVATIVES thinnish 
ˈTHiniSH 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English thynne, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch dun and German dünn, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin tenuis .
