thread 
BrE θrɛd, AmE θrɛd 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(string) 线 xiàn a piece or length of thread 一根线 to hang or be hanging by a thread 挂在一根线上 figurative 岌岌可危 jíjí kěwēi 
② (theme of argument, story) 脉络 màiluò to follow/lose the thread 跟上思路/失去头绪 to pull all the threads together 把所有的线索联系起来 to pick up the thread(s) of 重续 ‹conversation, story, career, life›to pick up the thread of a relationship with [somebody] 与某人重拾关系 
③ (line) 线状物 xiànzhuàngwù a thread of light/smoke 一线光/一缕烟 
④ (ridge of screw) 螺纹 luówén 
⑤ (linked messages on Internet) 跟帖 gēntiě 
B.  noun pluralthreads AmE colloquial 衣服 yīfu 
C.  transitive verb 
① (put thread in) 给…穿线 gěi… chuānxiàn can you thread this needle/sewing machine? 你能穿这根针/为这台缝纫机穿线吗？ 
② (insert) 把…装入 bǎ… zhuāngrù to thread the film on to the spool 把底片装在卷轴上 to thread [something] through [something]; 将某物穿过某物 to thread the rope through a pulley 把绳子穿进滑轮 
③ (move) 穿过 chuānguo to thread one's way through 在…中间穿行 ‹tables, obstacles, crowd›
D.  intransitive verb «needle, sewing machine, bead» 穿上线 chuānshang xiàn ; «film, yarn» 装入 zhuāngrù the machine threads from behind 这台机器从后面穿线 the tape threads between these magnetic heads 磁带在这些磁头中间穿过 
thread 
THred

▶noun
1 a long, thin strand of cotton, nylon, or other fibers used in sewing or weaving. 
• cotton, nylon, or other fibers spun into long, thin strands and used for sewing. 
• (threads) informal, chiefly North American clothes.
2 a thing resembling a thread in length or thinness, in particular: 
• chiefly literary a long, thin line or piece of something: the river was a thread of silver below them. 
• a theme or characteristic, typically forming one of several, running throughout a situation or piece of writing: a common thread running through the scandals was the failure to conduct audits.
3 a group of linked messages posted on an Internet forum that share a common subject or theme. 
• a programming structure or process formed by linking a number of separate elements or subroutines, especially each of the tasks executed concurrently in multithreading.
4 (also screw thread) a helical ridge on the outside of a screw, bolt, etc., or on the inside of a cylindrical hole, to allow two parts to be screwed together. 
▶verb [with object]
1 pass a thread through the eye of (a needle) or through the needle and guides of (a sewing machine). 
• pass (a long, thin object or piece of material) through something and into the required position for use: he threaded the rope through a pulley. 
• [no object] move carefully or skillfully in and out of obstacles: she threaded her way through the tables. 
• interweave or intersperse as if with threads: his hair had become ill-kempt and threaded with gray. 
• put (beads, chunks of food, or other small objects) together or singly on a thread, chain, or skewer that runs through the center of each one: Connie sat threading beads.
2 (usually as adjective threaded) cut a screw thread in or on (a hole, screw, or other object). 
PHRASES
hang by a thread be in a highly precarious state. lose the (or one's) thread be unable to follow what someone is saying or remember what one is going to say next.DERIVATIVES threadlike 
ˈTHredˌlīk 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English thrǣd (noun), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch draad and German Draht, also to the verb throw. The verb dates from late Middle English.
