throw 
BrE θrəʊ, AmE θroʊ 

A.  transitive verb(past tense threw, past participle thrown) 
① (send through air) 投掷 tóuzhì to throw a ball in or into the air/across the pitch/over the wall 把球扔向空中/扔过球场/扔过墙 he threw the javelin 80m 他把标枪掷出了80米 to throw cold water on [something] 给某事泼冷水 to throw a bridge over [something] 在某物上架桥 
② (direct) 把…指向 bǎ… zhǐxiàng to throw [somebody] a glance/look 瞥/看某人一眼 to throw [somebody] a smile/kiss 对某人微笑/向某人抛飞吻 to throw a question/remark at [somebody] 对某人提出问题/说一句话 to throw money at [something] 在某事上投钱 to throw suspicion on [somebody]/[something] 使某人/某事受到猜疑 to throw doubt on [somebody]/[something] 怀疑某人/某事 to throw one's voice 使说话声听起来似乎来自他处 
③ (disconcert) 使困惑 shǐ kùnhuò I was thrown by the news 那个消息使我心烦意乱 
④ (activate) 扳动 bāndòng ‹switch, lever, gear›the operator threw the machine into gear/reverse 操作员开动了机器/让机器倒转 
⑤ colloquial (indulge in, succumb to) 使发作 shǐ fāzuò to throw a fit or tantrum 大发脾气 
⑥ colloquial (organize) 举行 jǔxíng to throw a party 举行聚会 
⑦ (shape on potter's wheel) 把…拉成坯 bǎ… lāchéng pī ‹jug, vase›(turn on lathe) 车 chē ‹wood, chair leg›to throw a pot 拉出罐坯 a hand-thrown piece of pottery 一件手拉坯的陶器 
⑧ (give birth to) «animal» 产下 chǎnxia ‹young›
⑨ (put or move carelessly) 随手放 suíshǒu fàng ‹garment, sheet, wood›throw some coal on the fire, it's dying down 丢几块煤到炉子里，火快灭了 
⑩ (move part of body) 猛动 měng dòng she threw her arms around my neck 她张开双臂搂住我的脖子 
⑪ (cause to fall) 把…摔倒 bǎ… shuāidǎo ‹person, opponent, rider›(cause to move) 将…投入 jiāng… tóurù he threw his opponent in the third round 他在第三个回合把对手摔倒在地 to throw [somebody] into jail 把某人投入监狱 
⑫ (roll) 掷 zhì ‹dice›; (score) 掷出 zhìchū ‹number›to throw a six 掷出六点 
⑬ (cause to be) 使…处于 shǐ… chǔyú ‹person, army, plans›the strike has thrown hundreds of people out of work 罢工使几百人失业了 to throw [somebody]/[something] into confusion or disarray 使某人/某物慌张失措/陷入混乱 the news throw me off balance 这消息使我不知所措 
⑭ (project) «sun, building» 投射 tóushè ‹light, shadow, shade›
⑮ (aim at opponent) 挥出 huīchū ‹punch, blow, right›he threw a left at his opponent 他向对手打出一记左拳 
⑯ colloquial (lose) «person, boxer» 在…中放水 zài… zhōng fàngshuǐ ‹fight, contest, game›
B.  reflexive verb(past tense threw, past participle thrown) to throw oneself (on to floor, bed, chair) 一头倒下 (with force) 猛冲 měng chōng to throw oneself off a building/in front of a train 跳楼/卧轨 to throw oneself at [somebody's] feet 伏倒在某人脚下 to throw oneself at [somebody] 向某人猛扑过去 figurative 拼命讨好某人 pīnmìng tǎohǎo mǒu rén to throw oneself into … 跳入 ‹river, sea› figurative 热衷于 rèzhōng yú ‹work, project›
C.  intransitive verb (past tense threw, past participle thrown) 投 tóu how far can you throw? 你能投多远？ 
D.  noun 
① (act or instance of casting object) 掷 zhì (distance cast) 投掷距离 tóuzhì jùlí a well-aimed/record throw 很准的一掷/破纪录的一投 he won with a throw of six 他掷出六点赢了 whose throw is it? (in ball game) 该谁掷球？ (with dice) 该谁掷骰子了？ a stone's throw 投石之遥 a throw of 70 metres 70米的投掷距离 
② (act of throwing opponent in wrestling, judo etc.) 摔倒 shuāidǎo a shoulder throw 肩摔 
③ colloquial (each) 每一个 měi yī gè CDs £5 a throw! 激光唱片5英镑一张！ 
④ (furniture cover) 罩 zhào 
⑤ Mechanics (action) (of slide valve) 摆度 bǎidù (of crank) 行程 xíngchéng PHRASAL VERBS throw about, throw around transitive verb[throw something about], [throw about something] 
① (between points) 把…扔来扔去 bǎ… rēng lái rēng qù to throw a ball about 把球扔来扔去 
② (randomly) 乱扔 luànrēng ‹litter, confetti, cushions›to throw money about 乱花钱 to throw one's weight about colloquial 耀武扬威 throw aside transitive verb[ throw something aside], [throw aside something] 
① literal (discard) 把…扔在一边 bǎ… rēng zài yībiān ‹object, garment, document›
② figurative (abandon) 抛弃 pāoqì ‹moral standard, principle›throw away transitive verb[throw something away], [throw away something] 
① (discard) 扔掉 rēngdiào ‹unwanted object, rubbish›
② (waste) 浪费 làngfèi ‹opportunity, advantage, life, money›
③ (utter casually) 随口说出 suíkǒu shuōchū ‹words, remark, information›throw back transitive verb[throw something back], [throw back something] 
① (return) 把…扔回 bǎ… rēnghuí ‹ball, fish›
② (move) 将…向后移 jiāng… xiàn ghòu yí ‹arm, body part›throw your shoulders back 把你的胸挺起来 
③ (repulse) 击退 jītuì ‹person, opponent, enemy›to throw [somebody] back on to the defensive 击退某人使其采取守势 
④ (make dependent) 迫使…依靠 pòshǐ… yīkào we have been thrown back on our own resources 我们不得不自己想办法 throw down transitive verb[throw something down], [throw down something] 
① (cast to the ground or floor) 扔下 rēngxia ‹object, person›; figurative 抛出 pāochū ‹challenge›
② it's (absolutely) throwing it down! BrE colloquial (raining hard) 雨下得真大！ yǔ xià de zhēn dà ！ throw in transitive verb[throw something in], [throw in something] 
① (propel) 把…扔进来 bǎ… rēng jinlai ‹object, ball›to throw in the towel or sponge figurative 认输 
② colloquial (give for free) 附赠 fùzèng ‹goods, extra item›
③ colloquial (add) 添加 tiānjiā ‹ingredient›thrown in for good measure 额外添加的 
④ colloquial (contribute) 随口说出 suíkǒu shuōchū ‹remark, suggestion›throw off 
A.  [throw something off], [throw off something] transitive verb 
① (take off) 迅速脱去 xùnsù tuōqù ‹garment›; 匆匆扯掉 cōngcōng chědiào ‹bedclothes›
② (compose quickly) 随手写出 suíshǒu xiěchū ‹poem, letter›
③ (overcome) 从…中恢复 cóng… zhōng huīfù ‹illness, depression, handicap›
B.  [throw somebody off], [throw off somebody] transitive verb 逐出 zhúchū the conductor threw him off the bus 售票员把他赶下公交车 
C.  [throw off somebody/something] transitive verb 摆脱 bǎituō ‹person, pursuer, burden, tradition›throw on transitive verb[throw something on], [throw on something] 匆匆穿上 cōngcōng chuānshang ‹garment›throw open transitive verb[throw something open], [throw open something] 
① (open forcefully) 猛力推开 měnglì tuīkāi ‹door, window›
② (make public) 使…公开 shǐ… gōngkāi ‹debate›to throw a discussion open 把讨论公开 
③ (make accessible) 开放 kāifàng ‹market, facility, tourist attraction›throw out 
A.  [throw something out], [throw out something] transitive verb 
① (discard) 扔掉 rēngdiào ‹rubbish, produce, clothing› → baby 
A. 
① 
② (reject) 否决 fǒujué ‹plan, case, bill›
③ (utter peremptorily) 断然地说 duànrán de shuō ‹hint, suggestion›; (utter casually) 随口说出 suíkǒu shuōchū ‹idea, suggestion›
④ (extend) 伸出 shēnchū throw your arms out in front of you 向前伸出你的胳膊 throw your chest out 把你的胸挺起来 
⑤ (radiate) 发出 fāchū ‹heat, light›
⑥ (rapidly develop) «plant» 迅速长出 xùnsù zhǎngchū ‹side shoot, bud, leaves›
B.  [throw somebody out], [throw out somebody] (eject) 逐出 zhúchū to be thrown out of work 被解雇 
C.  [throw somebody/something out] transitive verb 使…不知所措 shǐ… bù zhī suǒ cuò ‹person›; 使…混乱 shǐ… hùnluàn ‹calculation, thought process›that's what threw me out 正是那件事把我搞糊涂了 throw over transitive verb[throw somebody over], [throw over somebody] colloquial dated 抛弃 pāoqì ‹spouse, lover›throw together transitive verb[throw something together], [throw together something] 
① (assemble hastily) 匆匆拼凑 cōngcōng pīncòu ‹ingredients, elements›
② (make hastily) 仓促弄出 cāngcù nòngchū ‹meal, piece of furniture, entertainment›throw up 
A.  intransitive verb colloquial 呕吐 ǒutù 
B.  transitive verb[throw something up], [throw up something] 
① (reveal) 使…显露 shǐ… xiǎnlù ‹information, fact, problem›
② (emit) «volcano, geyser» 喷出 pēnchū ‹lava, spray, smoke, ash›
③ (toss into air) 把…抛向空中 bǎ… pāo xiàng kōngzhōng ‹ball, object›to throw up one's hands in horror 惊恐地举起双手 
④ (build hastily) 匆匆建造 cōngcōng jiànzào ‹shelter, structure›
⑤ colloquial (vomit) 呕吐出 ǒutù chū ‹food, drink›
⑥ colloquial (abandon) 放弃 fàngqì ‹job, career›
throw 
THrō

▶verb (throws, throwing; past threw 
THro͞o
; past participle thrown 
THrōn
)
1 [with object] propel (something) with force through the air by a movement of the arm and hand: I threw a brick through the window. 
• [with object or complement] push or force (someone or something) violently and suddenly into a particular physical position or state: the pilot and one passenger were thrown clear and survived 
the door was thrown open, and a uniformed guard entered the room. 
• put in place or erect quickly: the stewards had thrown a cordon across the fairway. 
• move (a part of the body) quickly or suddenly in a particular direction: she threw her head back and laughed. 
• project or cast (light or shadow) in a particular direction: a chandelier threw its bright light over the walls. 
• deliver (a punch). 
• direct (a particular kind of look or facial expression): she threw a withering glance at him. 
• project (one's voice) so that it appears to come from someone or something else, as in ventriloquism. 
• (throw something off/on) put on or take off a garment hastily: I threw on my housecoat and went to the door. 
• move (a switch or lever) so as to operate a device. 
• roll (dice). 
• obtain (a specified number) by rolling dice. 
• informal lose (a race or contest) intentionally, especially in return for a bribe.
2 [with object] cause to enter suddenly a particular state or condition: he threw all her emotions into turmoil 
the bond market was thrown into confusion. 
• put (someone) in a particular place or state, especially in a rough, abrupt, or summary fashion: these guys should be thrown in jail. 
• disconcert; confuse: she frowned, thrown by this apparent change of tack.
3 [with object] send (one's opponent) to the ground in wrestling, judo, or similar activity. 
• (of a horse) unseat (its rider). 
• (of a horse) lose (a shoe). 
• (of an animal) give birth to (young, of a specified kind): sometimes a completely black calf is thrown.
4 [with object] form (ceramic ware) on a potter's wheel: further on, a potter was throwing pots. 
• turn (wood or other material) on a lathe. 
• twist (silk or other fabrics) into thread or yarn.
5 [with object] have (a fit or tantrum).
6 [with object] give or hold (a party). 
▶noun
1 an act of throwing something: Jeter's throw to first base was too late. 
• an act of throwing one's opponent in wrestling, judo, or similar sport: a shoulder throw.
2 a light cover for furniture. 
• short for throw rug.
3 short for roll of the dice (see dice).
4 Geology the extent of vertical displacement between the two sides of a fault.
5 [usually in singular] the action or motion, or the extent of such motion, of a slide valve, crank, eccentric wheel, or cam. 
• the distance moved by the pointer of an instrument.
6 (a throw) informal used to indicate how much a single item, turn, or attempt costs: he was offering to draw on-the-spot portraits at $25 a throw. 
PHRASES
be thrown back on be forced to rely on (something) because there is no alternative: we are once again thrown back on the resources of our imagination. throw away the key used to suggest that someone who has been put in prison should or will never be released: the judge should lock up these robbers and throw away the key. throw the baby out with the bathwater see baby. throw something back in someone's face see face. throw the book at see book. throw cold water on see cold. throw down the gauntlet see gauntlet1. throw someone for a loop see loop. throw dust in someone's eyes seek to mislead or deceive someone by misrepresentation or distraction. throw good money after bad incur further loss in a hopeless attempt to recoup a previous loss. throw one's hand in withdraw from a card game, poker, because one has a poor hand. 
• withdraw from a contest or activity; give up. throw in one's lot with see lot. throw in the towel (or sponge) (of boxers or their seconds) throw a towel (or sponge) into the ring as a token of defeat. 
• abandon a struggle; admit defeat.throw light on see light1. throw money at something see money. throw of the dice see dice. throw oneself on someone's mercy see mercy. throw up one's hands raise both hands in the air as an indication of one's exasperation. throw one's weight around see weight. throw one's weight behind see weight. PHRASAL VERBS throw money around spend money freely and ostentatiously. throw oneself at appear too eager to become the sexual partner of. throw something away
1 discard something as useless or unwanted. 
• waste or fail to make use of an opportunity or advantage: I've thrown away my chances in life. 
• discard a playing card in a game.
2 (of an actor) deliver a line with deliberate underemphasis for increased dramatic effect. throw something in
1 include something, typically at no extra cost, with something that is being sold or offered: they cut the price by $100 and threw in an AC adaptor.
2 make a remark casually as an interjection in a conversation: he threw in a sensible remark about funding. throw oneself into start to do (something) with enthusiasm and vigor: Eve threw herself into her work. throw something off
1 rid oneself of something: he was struggling to throw off a viral-hepatitis problem.
2 write or utter in an offhand manner: Thomas threw off the question lightly. throw oneself on (or upon) attack (someone) vigorously: they threw themselves on the enemy.throw something open make something accessible: the market was thrown open to any supplier to compete for contracts. 
• invite general discussion of or participation in a subject or a debate or other event: the debate will be thrown open to the audience. throw someone out
1 expel someone unceremoniously from a place, organization, or activity.
2 Baseball put out a runner by a throw to the base being approached, followed by a tag. throw something out
1 discard something as unwanted.
2 (of a court, legislature, or other body) dismiss or reject something brought before it: the charges were thrown out by the judge.
3 put forward a suggestion tentatively: a suggestion that Dunne threw out caught many a reader's fancy.
4 cause numbers or calculations to become inaccurate: an undisclosed stock option throws out all your figures.
5 emit or radiate something: a big range fire that threw out heat like a furnace.
6 (of a plant) rapidly develop a side shoot, bud, etc. throw someone over abandon or reject someone as a lover. throw people together bring people into contact, especially by chance. throw something together make or produce something hastily, without careful planning or arrangement: the meal was quickly thrown together at news of Rose's arrival. throw up vomit. throw something up
1 abandon or give up something, especially one's job: why has he thrown up a promising career in politics?
2 informal vomit something one has eaten or drunk.
3 produce something and bring it to notice: he saw the prayers of the Church as a living and fruitful tradition that threw up new ideas.
4 erect a building or structure hastily.DERIVATIVES throwable adjectiveORIGIN Old English thrāwan ‘to twist, turn’; related to Dutch draaien and German drehen, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin terere ‘to rub,’ Greek teirein ‘wear out.’ Sense
1 of the verb, expressing propulsion and sudden action, dates from Middle English.
