thumb 
BrE θʌm, AmE θəm 

A.  noun 
① (human finger) 拇指 mǔzhǐ to be all (fingers and) thumbs 笨手笨脚 to be under [somebody's] thumb 受某人摆布 
② (animal finger) 第一指 dì-yī zhǐ 
③ (part of glove) [手套的] 拇指部分 mǔzhǐ bùfen 
B.  transitive verb 
① (turn pages of) 用拇指翻动 yòng mǔzhǐ fāndòng ‹book, magazine›
② (touch) 用拇指按 yòng mǔzhǐ àn ‹button, nose›to thumb one's nose at [somebody]/[something] 对某人/某事物不屑一顾 
③ colloquial (hitch-hike) 竖起拇指要求 shùqǐ mǔzhǐ yāoqiú to thumb a lift or a ride 竖起拇指要求搭便车 
C.  intransitive verb 用拇指示意 yòng mǔzhǐ shìyì to thumb at or towards [something] 用拇指示意某物 PHRASAL VERB thumb through transitive verb[thumb through something] 迅速翻阅 xùnsù fānyuè ‹book, magazine, pages›
thumb 
THəm

▶noun the short, thick first digit of the human hand, set lower and apart from the other four and opposable to them. 
• the corresponding digit of primates or other mammals. 
• the part of a glove intended to cover the thumb. 
▶verb [with object] press, move, or touch (something) with one's thumb: as soon as she thumbed the button, the door slid open. 
• turn over (pages) with or as if with one's thumb: I've thumbed my address book and found quite a range of smaller hotels 
[no object] : he was thumbing through that magazine for the umpteenth time. 
• (usually be thumbed) wear or soil (a book's pages) by repeated handling: his dictionaries were thumbed and ink-stained. 
• request or obtain (a free ride in a passing vehicle) by signaling with one's thumb: three cars passed me and I tried to thumb a ride 
[no object] : he was thumbing his way across France. 
PHRASES
be all thumbs informal be clumsy or awkward in one's actions: I'm all thumbs when it comes to making bows. thumb one's nose at informal show disdain or contempt for. thumbs up (or down) informal an indication of satisfaction or approval (or of rejection or failure): plans to build a house on the site have been given the thumbs down by the Department of the Environment. [with reference to the signal of approval or disapproval, used by spectators at a Roman amphitheater; the sense has been reversed, as the Romans used ‘thumbs down’ to signify that a beaten gladiator had performed well and should be spared, and ‘thumbs up’ to call for his death.]under someone's thumb completely under someone's influence or control.DERIVATIVES thumbless 
ˈTHəmləs 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English thūma; related to Dutch duim and German Daumen, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin tumere ‘to swell.’ The verb dates from the late 16th century, first in the sense ‘play (a musical instrument) with the thumbs.’
