thunder 
BrE ˈθʌndə, AmE ˈθəndər 

A.  nounattributive 
① (noise of storm) 雷声 léishēng a clap or peal of thunder 一声霹雳 thunder and lightning 雷电 léidiàn with a face like thunder or as black as thunder 怒容满面的 to steal [somebody's] thunder 抢某人的风头 
② (noise of hooves, traffic, cannons, applause) 隆隆声 lónglóng shēng the thunder of artillery 隆隆的炮声 
B.  transitive verb thunder (out) 吼出 hǒuchū ‹approval, disapproval, applause, command›
C.  intransitive verb 
① (roar) «person» 怒吼 nùhǒu to thunder at or against [somebody]/[something] 怒斥某人/某事物 
② (rush) «traffic, horses, water, person» 隆隆地移动 lónglóng de yídòng to thunder along/past … 轰隆隆地沿着…向前/从…旁边经过 he came thundering down the stairs 他咚咚咚地跑下楼梯 the river thundered over the cliffs 河水轰隆隆地冲过悬崖 
③ (make loud noise) 发出巨大声响 fāchū jùdà shēngxiǎng 
D.  impersonal verb it's thundering 打雷了 dǎléi le 
thunder 
ˈTHəndər

▶noun a loud rumbling or crashing noise heard after a lightning flash due to the expansion of rapidly heated air. 
• a resounding loud deep noise: you can hear the thunder of the falls in the distance. 
• used in similes and comparisons to refer to an angry facial expression or tone of voice: “I am Brother Joachim,” he announced in a voice like thunder. 
• [as exclamation] dated used to express anger, annoyance, or incredulity: none of this did the remotest good, but, by thunder, it kept the union activists feeling good. 
▶verb [no object] (it thunders, it is thundering, etc.) thunder sounds: it began to thunder. 
• make a loud, deep resounding noise: the motorcycle thundered into life 
the train thundered through the night. 
• [with object] strike powerfully: McGwire thundered that one out of the stadium. 
• speak loudly and forcefully or angrily, especially to denounce or criticize: he thundered against the evils of the age 
[with direct speech] : “Sit down!” thundered Morse with immense authority. 
PHRASES
steal someone's thunder see steal. DERIVATIVES thunderer 
ˈTHənd(ə)rər 
noun. thundery 
ˈTHənd(ə)rē 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English thunor (noun), thunrian (verb), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch donder and German Donner, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin tonare ‘to thunder.’
