ticket 
BrE ˈtɪkɪt, AmE ˈtɪkɪt 

A.  noun 
① (proof of entitlement) 票 piào a coach/metro or underground ticket 长途汽车/地铁票 a theatre/cinema ticket 戏票/电影票 a library ticket 图书馆借书证 a left-luggage/cloakroom ticket 行李/衣帽寄存凭证 a ticket for an exhibition 展览会入场券 ‘ticket holders only’, ‘admission by ticket only’ “凭票入场” that's (just) the ticket! colloquial (just right) 一切正好！ (the appropriate or desirable thing) 要的就是这个！ this car could be just the ticket for a small family 这辆汽车正适合小家庭 cooperation, that's the ticket 要的就是合作 for him, football was a ticket to a better life 对他来说，足球使他过上了更好的生活 
② (tag, label) 标签 biāoqiān a ticket bearing the kite mark 带有风筝标志的标签 
③ (proof of financial transaction) 交易凭证 jiāoyì píngzhèng goods cannot be exchanged without the ticket 没有收据的商品不能退换 the till ticket 收银条 
④ colloquial (notification of fine) 罚款单 fákuǎndān a parking ticket 违章停车罚款单 a ticket for speeding, a speeding ticket 超速驾驶罚款单 to give [somebody]/get a ticket 给某人开/收到罚款单 
⑤ Aviation, Nautical (certificate of competence) 执照 zhízhào a pilot's ticket 飞行员执照 
⑥ singular AmE Politics (list of candidates) 候选人名单 hòuxuǎnrén míngdān to run on the Republican ticket 作为共和党的候选人参加竞选 to be elected on an environmentalist ticket 以注重环境保护的政治主张当选 
B.  transitive verb 
① (attach ticket to) 加标签于 jiā biāoqiān yú 
② AmE (provide with ticket) 给…票 gěi… piào ticketed passengers 持票旅客 we can now be ticketed electronically 我们现在可以电子购票 
③ AmE (fine) 对…开罚款单 duì… kāi fákuǎndān to be ticketed colloquial 被贴罚款单 
ticket 
ˈtikit

▶noun
1 a piece of paper or small card that gives the holder a certain right, especially to enter a place, travel by public transport, or participate in an event: admission is by ticket only. 
• a piece of paper or card bought as a way of entering a lottery or raffle: the winning ticket was bought in Anaheim, California. 
• (in information technology) a request logged on a work tracking system detailing an issue that needs to be addressed or task that must be performed: if you have opened a ticket and it's not yet been resolved, there's no need to open a new one 
they closed the ticket without doing anything. 
• (ticket to/out of) a method of getting into or out of (a specified state or situation): drugs are seen as the only ticket out of poverty 
companies that appeared to have a one-way ticket to profitability.
2 a certificate or warrant, in particular: 
• an official notice of a traffic offense. 
• a certificate of qualification as a ship's master, pilot, or other crew member.
3 a label attached to a retail product, giving its price, size, and other details.
4 [in singular] chiefly North American a list of candidates put forward by a party in an election: his presence on the Republican ticket. 
• a set of principles or policies supported by a party in an election: he stood for office on a strong right-wing, no-nonsense ticket.
5 (the ticket) informal, dated the desirable or correct thing: a wet spring would be just the ticket for the garden. 
▶verb (tickets, ticketing, ticketed) [with object]
1 issue (someone) with an official notice of a traffic or other offense: park illegally and you are likely to be ticketed.
2 (be ticketed) (of a passenger) be issued with a travel ticket: passengers can now get electronically ticketed. 
• North American be destined or heading for a specified state or position: they were sure that Downing was ticketed for greatness.
3 (be ticketed) (of a retail product) be marked with a label giving its price, size, and other details. 
PHRASES
punch one's ticket US informal deliberately undertake particular assignments that are likely to lead to promotion at work. 
• (in sports) ensure one's progress to a further contest or tournament: in scoring
13 points, they punched their ticket to the Super Bowl in Jacksonville. write one's (own) ticket North American informal dictate one's own terms.ORIGIN early 16th century (in the general senses ‘short written note’ and ‘a license or permit’): shortening of obsolete French étiquet, from Old French estiquet(te), from estiquier ‘to fix,’ from Middle Dutch steken. Compare with etiquette .
