tick
1 
BrE tɪk, AmE tɪk 

A.  noun 
① (noise of clock) 滴答声 dīdā shēng 
② BrE colloquial (moment) 瞬间 shùnjiān in half a tick 一瞬间 I'll be with you in a or half a tick 我马上就回来 shan't be a tick 马上就好 just a tick!, in a tick!, in two ticks! 马上！ 
③ BrE (mark on paper) 钩号 gōuhào to make or put a tick against [something] 在某物上打钩 
B.  transitive verb 给…打钩 gěi… dǎgōu please tick the appropriate box 请在合适的框内打钩 
C.  intransitive verb «clock, watch, bomb» 滴答响 dīdā xiǎng I don't know what makes him tick figurative colloquial 我不明白他为什么会那么做 PHRASAL VERBS tick along intransitive verb colloquial 进行 jìnxíng work on her book is ticking along nicely 她的书写得相当顺利 tick away intransitive verb «meter» [以滴答声] 标示时间流逝 biāoshì shíjiān liúshì ; «time» 流逝 liúshì tick by intransitive verb «time» 流逝 liúshì tick off 
A.  transitive verb[tick something off], [tick off something] (put mark against) 给…打钩 gěi… dǎgōu ‹item, name›
B.  [tick somebody off, tick off somebody] transitive verb 
① BrE colloquial (reprimand) 斥责 chìzé 
② AmE colloquial (annoy) 使恼火 shǐ nǎohuǒ he was a little ticked off about the news 他听到那个消息有点生气 tick over intransitive verb BrE «engine, machine, vehicle» 空转 kōngzhuàn ; figurative 缓慢进行 huǎnmàn jìnxíng they are keeping things ticking over until the boss returns 在老板回来以前，他们做事都是慢慢吞吞的 
tick
1 
tik

▶noun
1 a regular short, sharp sound, especially that made by a clock or watch. 
• British informal a moment (used especially to reassure someone that one will return or be ready very soon): I'll be with you in a tick.
2 chiefly British a check mark.
3 Stock Market the smallest recognized amount by which a price of a security or future may fluctuate. 
▶verb
1 [no object] (of a clock or other mechanical device) make regular short sharp sounds, typically one for every second of time that passes: I could hear the clock ticking. 
• (tick away/by/past) (of time) pass (used especially when someone is pressed for time or keenly awaiting an event): the minutes were ticking away till the actor's appearance. 
• [with object] (tick something away) (of a clock or watch) mark the passing of time with regular short sharp sounds: the little clock ticked the precious minutes away. 
• proceed or progress: her book was ticking along nicely.
2 [with object] chiefly British mark (an item) with a tick or select (a box) on a form, questionnaire, etc., to indicate that something has been chosen, checked, approved, or dealt with: just tick the appropriate box below. 
PHRASES
what makes someone tick informal what motivates someone: people are curious to know what makes these men tick.PHRASAL VERBS tick someone off
1 North American informal make someone annoyed or angry.
2 British informal reprimand or rebuke someone: he was ticked off by Angela 
(as noun ticking off) : he got a ticking off from the boss. tick something off chiefly British
1 mark an item in a list with a tick to show that it has been dealt with: I ticked several items off my “to do” list.
2 list items one by one in one's mind or during a speech: he ticked the points off on his fingers. tick over (of an engine) idle. 
• work or function at a basic or minimum level: they are keeping things ticking over until their father returns.ORIGIN Middle English (as a verb in the sense ‘pat, touch’): probably of Germanic origin and related to Dutch tik (noun), tikken (verb) ‘pat, touch.’ The noun was recorded in late Middle English as ‘a light tap’; current senses date from the late 17th century.
