tight 
BrE tʌɪt, AmE taɪt 

A.  adjective 
① (firm) 紧的 jǐn de the drawer/window is very tight 抽屉/窗户很紧 to have a tight grasp or hold on [something] 紧紧抓住某物 figurative 对某事物有很好的把握 duì mǒu shìwù yǒu hěn hǎo de bǎwò 
② (close-fitting) 紧身的 jǐnshēn de ‹clothes›a tight dress/skirt/jacket 紧身连衣裙/裙子/夹克 my shoes are tight 我的鞋子很紧 
③ (with little space) 挤满的 jǐmǎn de a tight squeeze 极度的拥挤 it's going to be tight in the back seat 后座会很挤 
④ (difficult to negotiate) 难对付的 nán duìfu de a tight bend or corner or curve 急转弯 to be in/get oneself into a tight corner or situation or colloquial spot (over [something]) （在某事上）处于/使自己陷入困境 
⑤ (pulled taut) 拉紧的 lājǐn de ‹rope, string, strap›; 紧密的 jǐnmì de ‹stitch, weaving›; 憋闷的 biēmen de ‹chest, breathing›your knitting is too tight 你织得太密了 as tight as a drum 非常紧的 you must stretch the fabric as tight as a drum 你必须把布绷得紧紧的 my nerves are as tight as a drum 我的神经绷得紧紧的 
⑥ (restricted, limited) 严格的 yángé de ‹control, restriction›; 排满的 páimǎn de ‹timetable›money is a bit tight these days 最近钱有些紧 a tight budget 紧张的预算 a tight schedule 密集的日程安排 time is rather tight 时间很紧 
⑦ (impermeable) 密封的 mìfēng de ‹container, bottle›a tight seal/joint 密封条/严丝合缝的接口 a tight roof 不漏雨的屋顶 to run a tight ship figurative 管理有方 
⑧ colloquial (drunk) 醉醺醺的 zuìxūnxūn de to be/feel tight 喝醉/觉得醉了 to get tight 喝醉 
⑨ Sport (evenly contested) 势均力敌的 shì jūn lì dí de ‹match, competition›
⑩ colloquial (miserly) 小气的 xiǎoqi de she is very tight (with her money) 她（对钱）很小气 he's as tight as they come 他太抠门儿了 
⑪ (compact) 密集的 mìjí de they sat in a tight circle around him 他们紧紧围坐在他周围 
B.  adverb 
① (firmly) 紧紧地 jǐnjǐn de to fasten/close [something] tight 紧紧系住/关上某物 
② (closely) 紧紧地 jǐnjǐn de ‹squeeze, knit, stitch›he pulled the collar of his coat tight 他把大衣领子拉得紧紧的 the commuters are packed tight on the trains 火车上挤满了上下班的人 
③ (fast) 牢固地 láogù de to hold/sit tight 抓牢/坐着不动 to sit tight and wait for the crisis to blow over 静待危机结束 
C.  tights noun plural 
① especially BrE (worn by women) 连裤袜 liánkùwà a pair of tights 一双连裤袜 
② (worn by acrobats, dancers, etc.) 紧身衣 jǐnshēnyī 
tight 
tīt

▶adjective
1 fixed, fastened, or closed firmly; hard to move, undo, or open: she twisted her handkerchief into a tight knot. 
• (of clothes or shoes) close-fitting, especially uncomfortably so: the dress was too tight for her. 
• (of a grip) very firm so as not to let go: she released her tight hold on the dog 
figurative : presidential advisers keep a tight grip on domestic policy. 
• (of a ship, building, or object) well sealed against something such as water or air: [in combination] : a light-tight container. 
• (of a formation or a group of people or things) closely or densely packed together: he levered the bishop out from a tight knot of clerical wives. 
• (of a community or other group of people) having close relations; secretive: the tenants were far too tight to let anyone know.
2 (of a rope, fabric, or surface) stretched so as to leave no slack; not loose: the drawcord pulls tight. 
• (of a part of the body or a bodily sensation) feeling painful and constricted, as a result of anxiety or illness: there was a tight feeling in his gut. 
• (of appearance or manner) tense, irritated, or angry: she gave him a tight smile. 
• (of a rule, policy, or form of control) strictly imposed: security was tight at yesterday's ceremony. 
• (of a game or contest) with evenly matched competitors; very close: he won in a tight finish. 
• (of a written work or form) concise, condensed, or well structured: a tight argument. 
• (of an organization or group of people) disciplined or professional; well coordinated: the vocalists are strong, and the band is tight.
3 (of an area or space) having or allowing little room for maneuver: a tight parking spot 
it was a tight squeeze in the tiny vestibule. 
• (of a bend, turn, or angle) changing direction sharply; having a short radius. 
• (of money or time) limited or restricted: David was out of work and money was tight 
an ability to work to tight deadlines. 
• informal (of a person) not willing to spend or give much money; stingy.
4 [predicative] informal drunk: later, at the club, he got tight on brandy. 
▶adverb very firmly, closely, or tensely: he went downstairs, holding tight to the banisters. 
PHRASES
run a tight ship be very strict in managing an organization or operation. a tight corner (or spot or place) a difficult situation: her talent for talking her way out of tight corners.ORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘healthy, vigorous,’ later ‘firm, solid’): probably an alteration of thight ‘firm, solid,’ later ‘close-packed, dense,’ of Germanic origin; related to German dicht ‘dense, close.’
