timing 
BrE ˈtʌɪmɪŋ, AmE ˈtaɪmɪŋ 
noun 
① Uncountable(scheduling) 时间选择 shíjiān xuǎnzé 
② Uncountable(skill) 时机掌握 shíjī zhǎngwò to get one's timing right/wrong 时机把握适当/错误 
③ Countable(in engine) 点火时间控制 diǎnhuǒ shíjiān kòngzhì 
④ Countable(specific time) 特定时间 tèdìng shíjiān 
⑤ Countable(length of time) 时长 shícháng 
time 
▶noun
1 what time is it? hour; dated o'clock.
2 late at night was the best time to leave: moment, point, point in time, occasion, hour, minute, second, instant, juncture, stage.
3 he worked there for a time: while, spell, stretch, stint, span, season, interval, period, period of time, length of time, duration, phase, stage, term, patch.
4 the time of the dinosaurs: era, age, epoch, period, years, days; generation, date.
5 I've known a lot of cats in my time: lifetime, life, life span, days, time on earth, existence.
6 he had been a professional actor in his time: heyday, day, best days, best years, glory days, prime, peak, Golden Age.
7 (the times) the times are a-changing: conditions, circumstances; life, the state of affairs, the way of the world.
8 tunes in waltz time: rhythm, tempo, beat; meter, measure, pattern.
▶verb
1 the events were timed perfectly: schedule, set, set up, arrange, organize, coordinate, fix, line up, slot in, prearrange, timetable, plan; slate.
2 we timed ourselves to prepare for the race: measure, clock, record one's time.
PHRASES
ahead of time get to the airport ahead of time: early, in good time, with time to spare, in advance. ahead of one's/its time Leonardo was ahead of his time in almost all endeavors 
a laser procedure that is ahead of its time: revolutionary, avant-garde, futuristic, innovatory, innovative, trailblazing, pioneering, groundbreaking, advanced, cutting edge. all the time the neighbors' dog barks all the time: constantly, the entire time, around/round the clock, day and night, night and day, ‘morning, noon, and night’, ‘day in, day out’, at all times, always, nonstop, without a break, ceaselessly, endlessly, unfailingly, incessantly, perpetually, permanently, interminably, continuously, continually, eternally, unremittingly, remorselessly, relentlessly, unrelentingly; informal 24-7; archaic without surcease. at one time she was a nurse at one time: formerly, previously, once, in the past, at one point, once upon a time, time was when, one fine day, in days/times gone by, in times past, in the (good) old days, long ago, back in the day; literary in days/times of yore; archaic erstwhile, whilom. at the same time
1 they arrived at the same time: simultaneously, at the same instant, at the same moment, together, all together, as a group, at once, at one and the same time; in unison, in concert, in chorus, in synchrony, as one, in tandem.
2 Curt seems like a nice guy—at the same time I'm not sure I would trust him: nonetheless, even so, however, but, still, yet, though, on the other hand; in spite of that, despite that, be that as it may, for all that, that said; notwithstanding, regardless, anyway, anyhow, still and all. at times she is at times cruel and ruthless: occasionally, sometimes, from time to time, now and then, every so often, once in a while, on occasion, off and on, at intervals, periodically, sporadically. behind the times the older I get, the less I think my parents are behind the times: old-fashioned, out of date, outmoded, outdated, dated, old, passé; informal square, not with it, old-school, horse-and-buggy, fusty. for the time being we're living in the cottage for the time being: for now, for the moment, for the present, in the interim, for the nonce, in/for the meantime, in the meanwhile, for a short time, briefly; temporarily, provisionally, pro tem. from time to time See at times. in no time I'll be dressed in no time: (very) soon, in a second, in an instant, in a minute, in a moment, in a trice, in a flash, shortly, any second, any minute (now), momentarily; informal in a jiffy, in a sec, in two shakes of a lamb's tail, in a snap; formal directly. in good time don't worry, Father will get here in good time: punctually, promptly, on time, early, with time to spare, ahead of time, ahead of schedule. in time
1 I came back in time for the party: early enough, in good time, punctually, on time, not too late, with time to spare, on schedule.
2 in time, she'll forgot about it: eventually, in the end, in due course, by and by, finally, after a while; one day, some day, sometime, sooner or later. many a time many a time they had gone to bed hungry: frequently, regularly, often, very often, all the time, habitually, customarily, routinely; again and again, time and again, over and over again, repeatedly, recurrently, continually, oftentimes; literary oft, ofttimes. on time please make sure you show up to class, and be on time: punctually, in good time, to/on schedule, when expected, on the dot. time after time the camera produces excellent results time after time: repeatedly, frequently, often, again and again, over and over (again), time and (time) again, many times, many a time; persistently, recurrently, constantly, continually, oftentimes; literary oft, ofttimes. 
WORD LINKS
time chronological , temporal1 relating to time horology the study and measurement of timeWord Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.
