tired 
BrE tʌɪəd, AmE ˈtaɪ(ə)rd 
adjective 
① (weary or showing weariness) 疲劳的 píláo de to be tired out 疲惫不堪 tired voice/eyes 疲倦的嗓音/眼睛 tired and emotional humorous 喝醉的 
② (bored) to be tired of [something]/[somebody]/doing [something]; 厌烦某事物/某人/做某事 yànfán mǒu shìwù/mǒu rén/zuò mǒu shì tired of protesting, she agreed 她对抗议已经厌倦，于是就答应了 to grow or get tired (of [something]/of doing [something]) （对某事物/做某事）感到厌倦 (duì mǒu shìwù/zuò mǒu shì)gǎndào yànjuàn 
③ (hackneyed) 陈腐的 chénfǔ de ‹joke, cliché, image›
④ (worn out) 破旧的 pòjiù de ‹car, clothes, furniture, decorations›; 运转不良的 yùnzhuǎn bùliáng de ‹organization, institution›
⑤ (wilted) 萎蔫的 wěiniān de ‹vegetable, cabbage, lettuce›; (no longer fresh) 不新鲜的 bù xīnxiān de ‹foodstuff, fish›
tired 
▶adjective
1 you're just tired from traveling: exhausted, worn out, weary, fatigued, dog-tired, dead beat, bone-tired, ready to drop, drained, zonked, wasted, enervated, jaded; informal done in, bushed, whipped, bagged, knocked out, wiped out, pooped, tuckered out. ANTONYMS energetic, wide awake, fresh.
2 are you tired of having him here? fed up with, weary of, bored with/by, sick (to death) of; informal up to here with.
3 tired jokes: hackneyed, overused, overworked, worn out, stale, clichéd, hoary, stock, stereotyped, predictable, unimaginative, unoriginal, uninspired, dull, uninvolving, boring, routine; informal old hat, corny. ANTONYMS lively, fresh.REFLECTIONS Francine Prosetired Tired is the perfect example of how language can illuminate the murkier corners of the psyche, and raise delicate questions of etiquette, sensibility, and intention. Of course, the word has many obvious, simple, and appropriate usages. After running the marathon and swimming the English Channel, I felt a bit tired. But in my opinion, it should never be used to convey one's sympathy with someone else's overtaxed physical or psychological state. Oh you poor thing, you look so terribly tired! It is less likely to make the tired person feel like the recipient of tender solicitude than like the victim of some deforming and previously undiagnosed wasting illness. Told we look tired, we are less apt to feel that our hard work is being appreciated than that we should immediately run to the mirror to check out the damage—and to wonder, with good reason, if the person whose sympathies we have aroused was actually expressing some sort of covert hostility.Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
