title 
BrE ˈtʌɪt(ə)l, AmE ˈtaɪdl 

A.  noun 
① Countable(identifying heading) (of book, film, play, piece of music, sculpture) 名称 míngchēng (of poem, article, photograph, painting) 标题 biāotí ; before noun 与作品同名的 yǔ zuòpǐn tóngmíng de the title character (of play, opera) 剧名角色 jùmíng juésè (of film) 片名角色 piànmíng juésè 
② Countable(book, publication) [出版物的] 一种 yī zhǒng 
③ Countable(status, rank, qualification awarded, etc.) 称呼 chēnghu (profession) 职衔 zhíxián title: Mr/Mrs/Ms 称谓：先生/夫人/女士 ［填写表格时的选项］
④ Countable(descriptive name) (describing position, job) 职位 zhíwèi (earned or chosen) 称号 chēnghào 
⑤ Countable(championship) 冠军 guànjūn to win/hold the title 获得冠军/拥有冠军头衔 before noun 冠军的 guànjūn de a title bout/defence/challenge/race 决定冠军归属的回合/卫冕赛/挑战赛/赛跑 
⑥ Countable(rank of nobility) 贵族头衔 guìzú tóuxián a man with a title 有爵位的男子 to take/be given a title 获得/被授予贵族头衔 the title of Duke of Marlborough 马尔伯勒公爵爵位 
⑦ Uncountable and countable(right to property or rank or throne) 所有权 suǒyǒuquán (basis of this right) 所有权基础 suǒyǒuquán jīchǔ (documentary evidence of this right) 所有权凭证 suǒyǒuquán píngzhèng (claim based on such a right) 所有权主张 suǒyǒuquán zhǔzhāng the title to [something] 某物的所有权 to register a title 注册所有权 
B.  titles noun plural 片尾字幕 piànwěi zìmù 
C.  transitive verb 给…加标题 gěi… jiā biāotí they titled their first album Ocean Drive 他们把第一张专辑取名为《海洋之旅》 
title 
ˈtīdl

▶noun
1 the name of a book, composition, or other artistic work: the author and title of the book. 
• (usually as titles) a caption or credit in a movie or broadcast. 
• a book, magazine, or newspaper considered as a publication: the company publishes 400 titles a year.
2 a name that describes someone's position or job: Leese assumed the title of director general. 
• a word such as Senator or Dame that is used before someone's name, or a form that is used instead of someone's name, to indicate high social or official rank: he will inherit the title of Duke of Marlborough. 
• a word such as Mrs. or Dr. that is used before someone's name to indicate their profession or marital status. 
• a descriptive or distinctive name that is earned or chosen: Nata's deserved the title of Best Restaurant of the Year.
3 the position of being the champion of a major sports competition: Davis won the world title for the first time in 1981.
4 Law a right or claim to the ownership of property or to a rank or throne: a local family had title to the property 
the buyer acquires a good title to the merchandise.
5 (in church use) a fixed sphere of work and source of income as a condition for ordination. 
• a parish church in Rome under a cardinal. 
▶verb [with object and complement] (usually be titled) give a name to (a book, composition, or other work): a song titled “You Rascal, You.” ORIGIN Old English titul, reinforced by Old French title, both from Latin titulus ‘inscription, title.’ The word originally denoted a placard or inscription placed on an object, giving information about it, hence a descriptive heading in a book or other composition.
