toast 
BrE təʊst, AmE toʊst 

A.  noun 
① UncountableCulinary 烤面包片 kǎo miànbāo piàn to do or make (some) toast 做（一些）烤面包片 a piece or slice of toast 一片烤面包片 a round of toast 一整片烤面包片 to be toast especially AmE colloquial 要完蛋 to be as warm as toast «person, bed, room» 很温暖 
② Countable(tribute) 干杯 gānbēi to drink a toast (to [somebody]/[something]) （为某人/某事物）干杯 to propose a toast (to [somebody]) 提议（为某人）干杯 will you raise your glasses and join me in a toast to the happy couple 请大家举起酒杯和我一起为这对幸福的伉俪干杯 to reply or respond to the toast 答谢祝酒 
③ Countablesingular (popular person) to be the toast of [somebody]/[something]; 在…中备受推崇 zài… zhōng bèi shòu tuīchóng she was the toast of the town 她在城里有口皆碑 
B.  transitive verb 
① Culinary (make into toast) 烤 kǎo this bread tastes good toasted 这面包烤后味道很好 a toasted sandwich 烤三明治 
② Culinary (brown over heat) 把…烤得焦黄 bǎ… kǎo de jiāohuáng ‹grains, seeds, nuts, spices›
③ (warm) 烘暖 hōngnuǎn ‹feet, hands›
④ (propose a toast to) 提议为…干杯 tíyì wèi… gānbēi ‹person, success, health›; (drink a toast to) 为…干杯 wèi… gānbēi ‹person, success, health›they were toasted with champagne 大家举起香槟酒为他们干杯 
C.  reflexive verb to toast oneself; 取暖 qǔnuǎn she sat toasting herself in front of the fire 她坐在炉火前取暖 
toast
1 
tōst

▶noun
1 sliced bread browned on both sides by exposure to radiant heat.
2 a call to a gathering of people to raise their glasses and drink together in honor of a person or thing, or an instance of drinking in this way: he raised his glass in a toast to his son. 
• [in singular] a person or thing that is very popular or held in high regard by a particular group of people: he found himself the toast of the baseball world. 
▶verb [with object]
1 cook or brown (food, especially bread or cheese) by exposure to a grill, fire, or other source of radiant heat: he sat by the fire and toasted a piece of bread 
(as adjective toasted) : toasted marshmallows. 
• [no object] (of food) cook or become brown by exposure to radiant heat: broil until the nuts have toasted. 
• warm (oneself or part of one's body) in front of a fire or other source or heat.
2 drink to the health or in honor of (someone or something) by raising one's glass together with others: happy families toasting each other's health 
figurative : he is toasted by the trade as the outstanding dealer in children's books. 
PHRASES
be toast informal be or be likely to become finished, defunct, or dead: one mistake and you're toast.ORIGIN late Middle English (as a verb in the sense ‘burn as the sun does, parch’): from Old French toster ‘roast,’ from Latin torrere ‘parch.’ The practice of drinking a toast ( sense
2 of the noun) goes back to the late 17th century, and originated in naming a lady whose health the company was requested to drink, the idea being that the lady's name flavored the drink like the pieces of spiced toast that were formerly placed in drinks such as wine.
