tone 
BrE təʊn, AmE toʊn 

A.  noun 
① Countable(quality of sound) 音调 yīndiào the harsh tone of an alarm bell 警铃鸣响的刺耳声音 
② Countable(character of voice) 口气 kǒuqì to use a sarcastic tone 用讥讽的口气 in a(n) … tone, in … tones 以…的口吻 to speak in hushed/low/clipped/measured tones 用压低/低沉/短促/慢条斯理的语调讲话 tone of voice 语气 
③ Uncountable and countable(character) (of letter, speech, meeting, conversation) 调子 diàozi (of place) 风气 fēngqì the overall tone of the book was gently nostalgic 这本书的整体格调是温情的怀旧 differences in style and tone between the two prime ministers 两位首相作风与格调的不同 to set the tone (for [something]) （为某事物）定基调 to raise/lower the tone (of [something]) 提高/降低（某事物的）格调 
④ Uncountable and countable(tint) 色调 sèdiào 
⑤ Countable(sound) (on telephone) 声音信号 shēngyīn xìnhào (on answering machine) 答录信号 dálù xìnhào the engaged tone 忙音 a continuous tone 连续音 
⑥ Countableusually singular (sound of musical instrument) 音色 yīnsè 
⑦ CountableMusic (interval) 全音 quányīn 
⑧ CountableAudio equipment (quality of sound of radio, CD player, etc.) 音质 yīnzhì 
⑨ CountableLinguistics 声调 shēngdiào a rising/falling tone 升调/降调 
⑩ UncountablePhysiology 健康 jiànkāng muscle/skin tone 肌肉的结实度/皮肤的柔韧性 in tone 健康的 
B.  intransitive verb 调和 tiáohé to tone (in) with [something]; «colour, curtains, carpet, paintwork» 与某物协调 
C.  transitive verb «exercise, treatment» 使…健壮 shǐ… jiànzhuàng ‹muscles, body›; «treatment» 使…紧致 shǐ… jǐnzhì ‹skin›a beautifully toned body 健美的身体 PHRASAL VERBS tone down transitive verb[tone something down], [tone down something] 
① (make less harsh or extreme) 使…缓和 shǐ… huǎnhé ‹remark, language, article, policy›
② (darken) 使…柔和 shǐ… róuhé ‹colour›tone up transitive verb[tone something up], [tone up something] 使…健壮 shǐ… jiànzhuàng ‹body, muscle›
tone 
tōn

▶noun
1 a musical or vocal sound with reference to its pitch, quality, and strength: the piano tone appears monochrome or lacking in warmth. 
• a modulation of the voice expressing a particular feeling or mood: a firm tone of voice. 
• a musical note, warble, or other sound used as a particular signal on a telephone or answering machine.
2 the general character or attitude of a place, piece of writing, situation, etc.: trust her to lower the tone of the conversation 
there was a general tone of ill-concealed glee in the reporting. 
• informal an atmosphere of respectability or class: they don't feel he gives the place tone.
3 Phonetics (in some languages, such as Chinese) a particular pitch pattern on a syllable used to make semantic distinctions. 
• Phonetics (in some languages, such as English) intonation on a word or phrase used to add functional meaning.
4 (also whole tone) a basic interval in classical Western music, equal to two semitones and separating, for example, the first and second notes of an ordinary scale (such as C and D, or E and F sharp); a major second or whole step.
5 the particular quality of brightness, deepness, or hue of a tint or shade of a color: an attractive color that is even in tone and texture 
stained glass in vivid tones of red and blue. 
• the general effect of color or of light and shade in a picture. 
• a slight degree of difference in the intensity of a color.
6 (also muscle tone) the normal level of firmness or slight contraction in a resting muscle. 
• Physiology the normal level of activity in a nerve fiber. 
▶verb [with object]
1 give greater strength or firmness to (the body or a part of it): exercise tones up the muscles. 
• [no object] (tone up) (of a muscle or bodily part) became stronger or firmer.
2 [no object] (tone with) harmonize with (something) in terms of color: the rich orange color of the wood tones beautifully with the yellow roses.
3 Photography give (a monochrome picture) an altered color in finishing by means of a chemical solution. PHRASAL VERBS tone something down make something less harsh in sound or color. 
• make something less extreme or intense: she saw the need to tone down her protests.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French ton, from Latin tonus, from Greek tonos ‘tension, tone,’ from teinein ‘to stretch.’
