tool 
BrE tuːl, AmE tul 

A.  noun 
① (device, implement) 工具 gōngjù a set of tools 一套工具 garden tools 园艺用具 to down tools 停工 
② (aid) (in occupation) 用具 yòngjù (in pursuit of aim) 手段 shǒuduàn an essential tool in the classroom 基本教具 management tools 管理工具 
③ Computing 工具软件 gōngjù ruǎnjiàn 
④ pejorative (underling) 爪牙 zhǎoyá (puppet) 傀儡 kuǐlěi to be a mere tool in the hands of … 只是…手里的工具 
⑤ slang (penis) 鸡巴 jība offensive 
B.  transitive verb 给…压印图案 gěi… yāyìn tú'àn ‹leather, silver›volumes bound in green leather and tooled in gold 烫金绿革封皮的书卷 PHRASAL VERB tool up 
A.  transitive verb[tool something up], [tool up something] 给…配置设备 gěi… pèizhì shèbèi ‹factory›as soon as the factory's tooled up, we can start production 工厂的设备一旦配置齐全，我们就能开始生产 
B.  intransitive verb 配置设备 pèizhì shèbèi 
tool 
▶noun
1 garden tools: implement, utensil, instrument, device, apparatus, gadget, appliance, machine, contrivance, contraption; informal gizmo.
2 the beautiful Estella is Miss Havisham's tool: puppet, pawn, creature, cat's paw; minion, lackey, instrument, organ; informal stooge.
▶verb tool leather into a saddle: work, fashion, shape, cut; ornament, embellish, decorate, chase.CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD tool, apparatus, appliance, implement, instrument, utensil A wrench is a tool, meaning that it is a device held in and manipulated by the hand and used by a mechanic, plumber, carpenter, or other laborer to work, shape, move, or transform material (he couldn't fix the drawer without the right tools). An implement is a broader term referring to any tool or mechanical device used for a particular purpose (agricultural implements). A washing machine is an appliance, which refers to a mechanical or power-driven device, especially for household use (the newly married couple went shopping for appliances). A utensil is a handheld implement for domestic use (eating utensils), while an instrument is used for scientific or artistic purposes (musical instrument; surgical instrument). Apparatus refers to a collection of distinct instruments, tools, or other devices that are used in connection or combination with one another for a certain purpose (the gym was open, but the exercise apparatus had not been set up).These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
