tooth 
BrE tuːθ, AmE tuθ 
noun(plural teeth) 
① (in mouth) 牙齿 yáchǐ a set of teeth 一副牙齿 baby or first teeth 乳牙 adult or second or permanent teeth 恒牙 to bare or show one's teeth 露出牙齿 figurative 显示出坚定的姿态 xiǎnshì chū jiāndìng de zītài to mutter between one's teeth 喃喃自语 to flash one's teeth at [somebody] 朝某人咧嘴笑 to cut one's teeth 长出牙齿 to cut one's teeth on … figurative 从…中获得初步经验 to take out or extract or remove a tooth 拔牙 to sink one's teeth into [something] (eat) 狼吞虎咽地吃某物 (attack) 用力咬某物 to get one's teeth into [something] figurative 专注于某事物 armed to the teeth 武装到牙齿的 to fight (for [something]) tooth and nail （为某事物）奋力抗争 nature, red in tooth and claw 残酷无情的大自然 to be fed up or sick to the (back) teeth (of or with [somebody]/[something]) colloquial 受够了（某人/某事物） he lied through his teeth to get that job! 为了得到那份工作他公然说谎！ to do [something] in the teeth of criticism/opposition/danger 不顾批评/反对/危险做某事 in the teeth of the storm/wind/gale 冒着暴风雨/风/大风 a kick in the teeth figurative 野蛮的对待 to be long in the tooth 年事已高 to have a sweet tooth 喜欢吃甜食 to escape by the skin of one's teeth 勉强逃脱 
② (of tool, implement) 齿 chǐ 
③ teeth plural figurative (power) 权力 quánlì (effectiveness) 效力 xiàolì it's no use setting up a regulatory body if it has no teeth 设立监管机构却不赋予它权力是毫无用处的 to give [something] teeth 赋予某物权力 
tooth 
to͞oTH

▶noun (plural teeth 
tēTH
)
1 each of a set of hard, bony enamel-coated structures in the jaws of most vertebrates, used for biting and chewing. 
• a hard, pointed structure in invertebrate animals, typically functioning in the mechanical breakdown of food. 
• (teeth) genuine force or effectiveness of a body or in a law or agreement: the Charter would be fine if it had teeth and could be enforced.
2 a projecting part on a tool or other instrument, especially one of a series that function or engage together, such as a cog on a gearwheel or a point on a saw or comb. 
• a projecting part on an animal or plant, especially one of a jagged or dentate row on the margin of a leaf or shell.
3 an appetite or liking for a particular thing: what a tooth for fruit a monkey has!
4 roughness given to a surface to allow color or glue to adhere. 
PHRASES
armed to the teeth see armed. fight tooth and nail fight fiercely. get (or sink) one's teeth into work energetically and productively on (a task): the course gives students something to get their teeth into. in the teeth of directly against (the wind). 
• in spite of or contrary to (opposition or difficulty): we defended it in the teeth of persecution. set someone's teeth on edge see edge. DERIVATIVES toothed 
to͞oTHt to͞oT͟Hd 
adjective. toothlike 
-ˌlīk 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English tōth (plural tēth), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch tand and German Zahn, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin dent-,Greek odont- .
