top 
BrE tɒp, AmE tɑp 

A.  noun 
① Uncountable and countable(highest part) (of mountain, head, roof, car) 顶 dǐng (of ridge, cliff, tree, ladder, wall, wave, list, etc.) 顶端 dǐngduān (of cupboard, container) 顶部 dǐngbù the top of the hill/building 山顶/楼顶 the very top 最顶端 to fill a glass to the very top 斟满杯子 five lines down from the top of the page 从页首数起第5行 the top of the street/garden especially BrE 街道/花园的尽头 the top of the table 桌子的上首 to be (at the) top of the or one's list (to do [something]) （做某事）是最重要的 to be top of the class 名列班级第一 top of the pops 流行音乐排行榜首位 from top to toe 从头到脚 from top to bottom 彻底地 from the top colloquial 从头开始 to take [something] from the top 从头再做一遍某事 to go over the top Military 爬出战壕进攻 to go over the top with anger 怒不可遏 to be over the top especially BrE colloquial (be excessive) 过分 (be exaggerated) 夸张 not to have much up top colloquial 没有多少脑子 top of the morning Irish 早上好 
② Uncountable and countable(upper surface) (of box, desk, sideboard, cake) 上面 shàngmian (of water, sea, lake) 表面 biǎomiàn on the top of [something] 在某物上面 the top of the table 桌面 to come or rise or float to the top 浮到表面 off the top of one's head colloquial 不假思索地 to talk through a hole in the top of one's head colloquial 趾高气扬地胡说 on top 在上面 she wore a skirt and blouse with a raincoat on top 她穿着裙子和衬衫，外面罩着雨衣 to be or stay on top (be in superior position) 处于优势 (be in control) 控制局面 to come out on top 名列前茅 one thing on top of another 接二连三的事情 on top of all this, she was made redundant 最糟糕的是，她还被解聘了 on top of doing [something] 除了做某事之外 to be or get on top of [something] 能够处理某事 to get on top of [somebody] 使某人吃不消 to feel on top of the world colloquial 欢天喜地 
③ Uncountablethe top (highest, most important rank) 最高级别 zuì gāo jíbié the decision came from the top 决定是最上层作出的 life can be tough at the top 身居高位日子也会不好过 to get to or make it to or reach the top 出人头地 chū rén tóu dì his experience will surely take him to the top 他的经验肯定能将他送上高位 the top of the tree 最高地位 zuì gāo dìwèi 
④ Uncountable and countable(upper part) (of piece of furniture, building, facade) 上部 shangbù ; especially BrE (of milk) 奶皮 nǎipí a sliding top Auto 滑动天窗 to sit on top (of bus, tram) 在车厢上层就座 
⑤ Countable(lid) 盖 gài (pen cap) 帽 mào to put on/screw on the top 盖上/拧上盖子 to screw off or unscrew the top 拧开盖子 to blow one's top figurative colloquial 发脾气 
⑥ CountableClothing 上装 shàngzhuāng a pyjama/tracksuit top 睡衣/运动服上衣 
⑦ Uncountable BrE Auto 高挡 gāodǎng to be in top 挂着高挡 
⑧ Countable(toy) 陀螺 tuóluó to spin a top 转陀螺 to sleep like a top 睡得很熟 
B.  tops noun plural 
① (of plant and vegetable) [根茎类植物的] 茎叶 jīngyè turnip/carrot/celery tops 芜菁/胡萝卜/芹菜茎叶 
② colloquial (person) 最优秀的人 zuì yōuxiù de rén (thing) 最好的东西 zuìhǎo de dōngxi to be (the) tops 出类拔萃 
C.  adjectiveattributive 
① (highest) 最上面的 zuì shàngmian de ‹button, shelf, layer›; 最高的 zuì gāo de ‹price, class, category›on the top floor 在顶楼 on the top step 在最高一级的台阶上 the top coat of paint 最上面的一层漆 she has difficulty reaching the top notes 她很难唱到最高音 the top right-/left-hand corner 右上角/左上角 to get/give [somebody] top marks (for [something]) （在某方面）得到最高分/给某人最高分 figurative （因某事物）获得/给某人特别偏爱 (yīn mǒu shìwù)huòdé/gěi mǒu rén tèbié piān'ài the top end of the range/market 该系列/市场的高端 
② especially BrE (furthest away) 最远的 zuì yuǎn de ‹end›; 最远端的 zuìyuǎnduān de ‹part, section›the patient in the top bed 最里边床位的病人 
③ (maximum) 最大的 zuì dà de this is a matter of top priority 这是最重要的一件事 (at) top speed （以）最高速 in or on top form 处于最佳状态的 you could earn top money in Saudi Arabia colloquial 你在沙特阿拉伯能挣到大钱 
④ (leading) 最高位的 zuìgāowèi de ‹authority, politician›; 顶尖的 dǐngjiān de ‹surgeon, adviser, team, job›one of the company's top executives 公司最高层管理人员之一 he's the top scorer this season 他是本赛季的头号得分手 the top ten/twenty Music 流行音乐排行榜前10名/前20名 he's a top bloke BrE colloquial 他是个大好人 
⑤ (best) 最划算的 zuì huásuàn de ‹buy›; 最好的 zuì hǎo de ‹choice›one of the city's top tourist attractions 这座城市的最佳观光地之一 
⑥ (upper) 上部的 shangbù de the top half of the body 上半身 
D.  tops adverb colloquial 至多 zhìduō it couldn't have cost more than £50, tops 这应该花了最多不超过50英镑 
E.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -pp-) 
① (surmount, finish off) «trees, roof, icing, sauce» 盖在…顶上 gài zài… dǐng shang ‹hill, building, dish›to be topped by or with [something]; 以某物做顶 each cake was topped with a cherry 每只蛋糕顶上都放了一颗樱桃 
② (head) 到达…的顶部 dàodá… de dǐngbù ‹mountain, ridge›; «team, record, politician, political party, name» 居…之首 jū… zhī shǒu ‹league, division, charts, list, class›Liverpool are topping the first division 利物浦队目前在甲级联赛中占据首位 to top the polls in an election 在选举中得票最多 a chart-topping new single 排行榜首的新单曲 to top the bill (as performer) 领衔主演 (as attraction) 成为主要看点 
③ (surpass) 超过 chāoguò to top one's best work 超越自己最好的作品 that tops the lot! colloquial 那简直盖了帽了！ and to top it all … 更有甚者… to top [somebody]; 比某人高 
④ (cap) 胜过 shèngguo ‹story, remark, action›top that! 来比试比试！ 
⑤ (remove top of) «cook, gardener» 为…剪顶 wèi… jiǎn dǐng ‹plant, fruit, vegetable, tree›
⑥ BrE colloquial (kill) 干掉 gàndiào 
F.  reflexive verb(present participle etc. -pp-) 
① to top oneself BrE colloquial (commit suicide) 自杀 zìshā 
② to top oneself AmE (surpass oneself) 超越自己 chāoyuè zìjǐ PHRASAL VERBS top off transitive verb[top something off], [top off something] [以特定方式] 结束 jiéshù ‹action, entertainment, meal›to top [something] off with [something]; 以某物结束某事 to top [something] off by doing [something]; 以做某事结束某事 top out 
A.  transitive verb[top something out], [top out something] 为…封顶 wèi… fēngdǐng ‹building›
B.  intransitive verb «expenditure, growth» 达到顶点 dádào dǐngdiǎn top up especially BrE 
A.  [top something up], [top up something] transitive verb 
① (refill) 加满 jiāmǎn ‹tank, drink, glass›to top up the battery every week 每周给电池充满电 to top [something] up with [something]; 用某物加满某物 
② (supplement) 补足 bǔzú ‹earnings, savings, payment, rate›
B.  [top somebody up], [top up somebody] transitive verb colloquial (give refill to) 给…斟满杯子 gěi… zhēnmǎn bēizi ‹person›
C.  intransitive verb 加满 jiāmǎn top up before you start your journey 在出发以前把油加满 to top up with [something]; 用某物加满 
top
1 
täp

▶noun
1 [usually in singular] the highest or uppermost point, part, or surface of something: Eileen stood at the top of the stairs 
fill the cup almost to the top. 
• (usually tops) the leaves, stems, and shoots of a plant, especially those of a vegetable grown for its root. 
• chiefly British the end of something that is furthest from the speaker or a point of reference: the bus shelter at the top of the road.
2 a thing or part placed on, fitted to, or covering the upper part of something, in particular: 
• a garment covering the upper part of the body and worn with a skirt, pants, or shorts. 
• a lid, cover, or cap for something: the pen dries out if you leave the top off. 
• a platform at the head of a ship's mast, especially (in a sailing ship) a platform around the head of each of the lower masts, serving to extend the topmast shrouds.
3 (the top) the highest or most important rank, level, or position: her talent will take her right to the top 
the people at the top must be competent. 
• (tops) informal a person or thing regarded as particularly good or pleasant: Davison is tops in its market. 
• the utmost degree or the highest level: she shouted at the top of her voice. 
• British the highest gear of a motor vehicle. 
• the high-frequency component of reproduced sound.
4 Baseball the first half of an inning: the top of the eighth.
5 short for topspin.
6 (usually tops) a bundle of long wool fibers prepared for spinning.
7 Physics one of six flavors of quark.
8 informal a male who takes the active role in homosexual intercourse, especially anal intercourse. 
▶adjective [attributive] highest in position, rank, or degree: the top button of his shirt 
a top executive. 
▶verb (tops, topping, topped) [with object]
1 exceed (an amount, level, or number); be more than: losses are expected to top $100 million this year. 
• be at the highest place or rank in (a list, poll, chart, or league): her debut album topped the charts for five weeks. 
• be taller than: he topped her by several inches. 
• surpass (a person or previous achievement or action); outdo: he was baffled as to how he could top his past work. 
• appear as the chief performer or attraction at: Hopper topped a great night of boxing. 
• reach the top of (a hill or other stretch of rising ground): they topped a rise and began a slow descent.
2 (usually be topped) provide with a top or topping: baked potatoes topped with melted cheese. 
• complete (an outfit) with an upper garment, hat, or item of jewelry: a white dress topped by a dark cardigan. 
• remove the top of (a vegetable or fruit) in preparation for cooking.
3 Golf mishit (the ball or a stroke) by hitting above the center of the ball. 
▶adverb (tops) informal at the most: he makes $28,000 a year, tops. 
PHRASES
at the top of one's game informal at the height of one's powers: this film is the work of a director at the top of his game. at the top of one's lungs as loudly as possible. from top to bottom completely; thoroughly: we searched the place from top to bottom. from top to toe completely; all over: she seemed to glow from top to toe. from the top informal from the beginning: they rehearsed Act One from the top. off the top of one's head see head. on top
1 on the highest point or uppermost surface: a hill with a flat rock on top. 
• on the upper part of the head: my hair's thinning on top.
2 in a leading or the dominant position: his party came out on top in last month's elections. on top of
1 on the highest point or uppermost surface of: a town perched on top of a hill. 
• so as to cover; over: trays stacked one on top of another. 
• in close proximity to: we all lived on top of each other.
2 in command or control of: he couldn't get on top of his work.
3 in addition to: on top of everything else, he's a brilliant linguist. on top of the world informal happy and elated. top dollar informal a very high price: I pay top dollar for my materials. top forty (or ten, etc.) the first forty (or ten, etc.) records in the pop music charts.to top it all as a culminating, typically unpleasant, event or action in a series: her father had a fatal heart attack, and to top it all her mother disowned her. up top see up. PHRASAL VERBS top something off
1 (often be topped off) finish something in a memorable or notable way: the festivities were topped off with the awarding of prizes.
2 US informal fill up a nearly full tank with fuel. top out reach an upper limit: collectors whose budgets tend to top out at about $50,000. top something out put the highest structural feature on a building, typically as a ceremony to mark the building's completion. top something up chiefly British add to a number or amount to bring it up to a certain level: a 0.5 percent bonus is offered to top up savings rates. 
• fill up a glass or other partly full container.ORIGIN late Old English topp (noun), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch top ‘summit, crest.’
