tough 
BrE tʌf, AmE təf 

A.  adjective 
① (strong and durable) 坚固的 jiāngù de ‹material›
② (hard to chew) 咬不动的 yǎobudòng de the meat is as tough as old boots 这块肉像牛皮一样嚼不动 
③ (hardy) (physically) 强壮的 qiángzhuàng de (mentally) 刚强的 gāngqiáng de you have to be tough to do that 做那事你必须吃得起苦 as tough as old boots 非常坚强 to hang tough AmE 坚定不移 hang tough! AmE 顶住！ 
④ (hardened, determined) 强硬的 qiángyìng de (hard-hearted, ruthless) 无情的 wúqíng de you have to be tough to be in politics these days 如今想要从政，就要心肠狠一点儿 he's a tough character! 他是个狠角色！ a tough customer 难对付的人 a tough guy 硬汉 to talk/act tough 说话口气/举止强硬 
⑤ (severe) 严厉的 yánlì de ‹policy, law, penalty›(firm) 坚决的 jiānjué de ‹opposition, stance›to be tough with [somebody]/on [something] 对某人/某事物很严厉 ‘tough on crime’ (government slogan) “严打犯罪” to get tough or to take a tough line with [somebody]/on [something] 对某人/某事物采取严厉措施 
⑥ (hard, difficult) 艰难的 jiānnán de a tough problem to solve 要解决的难题 to have a tough time (of it) (with …) （因…）日子很难熬 to have a tough time doing [something] 做某事很艰难 
⑦ (rough) (of area characterized by crime) 犯罪活动猖獗的 fànzuì huódòng chāngjué de (of area characterized by vandalism) 野蛮的 yěmán de 
⑧ (unfortunate) 不幸的 bùxìng de to have a tough break 倒霉 tough luck! (not showing sympathy) 真倒霉！ (showing sympathy) 真不幸！ it's or that's (just) tough (luck) 真倒霉 it's or that's (just) his tough luck or tough luck on him 他活该倒霉 tough shit! vulg 倒霉透了！ poor kid, it's been tough on her 可怜的孩子，她太不幸了 
B.  exclamation 多倒霉啊 duō dǎoméi ɑ I've no money — tough! 我没带钱──倒霉！ 
C.  noun colloquial 粗暴的人 cūbào de rén PHRASAL VERB tough out transitive verb[tough something out], [tough out something] colloquial 挨过 áiguo ‹crisis›to tough it out 撑到底 
tough 
təf

▶adjective
1 (of a substance or object) strong enough to withstand adverse conditions or rough or careless handling: tough backpacks for climbers. 
• (of a person or animal) able to endure hardship or pain; physically robust: even at this ripe old age, he's still as tough as old boots. 
• able to protect one's own interests or maintain one's own opinions without being intimidated by opposition; confident and determined: she's both sensitive and tough. 
• demonstrating a strict and uncompromising attitude or approach: police have been getting tough with drivers 
tough new laws on tobacco advertising. 
• (of a person) strong and prone to violence: tough young teenagers. 
• (of an area) notorious for violence and crime. 
• (of food, especially meat) difficult to cut or chew.
2 involving considerable difficulty or hardship; requiring great determination or effort: the training has been quite tough 
he had a tough time getting into a good college. 
• used to express sympathy with someone in an unpleasant or difficult situation: Poor kid. It's tough on her. 
• [often as exclamation] used to express a lack of sympathy with someone: I feel the way I feel, and if you don't like it, tough. 
▶noun a tough person, especially a gangster or criminal: young toughs sporting their state-of-the-art firearms. 
▶verb (tough it out) informal endure a period of hardship or difficulty. 
PHRASES
a tough nut to crack see nut. tough shit (or titty) vulgar slang used to express a lack of sympathy with someone.DERIVATIVES toughish adjective. toughly 
ˈtəflē 
adverbORIGIN Old English tōh, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch taai and German zäh .
