transport 
A.  /BrE ˈtranspɔːt, ˈtrɑːn-, AmE ˈtræn(t)spɔrt
noun 
① Uncountable(system) 运输 yùnshū air/rail transport 航空/铁路运输 Ministry or Department of Transport 交通部 transport charges/industry 运输费/运输业/运输工人 
② Uncountable(conveyance of goods or people) 运送 yùnsòng (means of conveyance) 运输工具 yùnshū gōngjù the transport of goods by sea 货物的海运 his bike is his only means of transport 自行车是他唯一的代步工具 transport to and from the airport is included 往返机场的交通费用包括在内 
③ Countableusually plural literary (rapture) 狂喜 kuángxǐ (fury) 狂怒 kuángnù to go into transports of delight (over [something]) （对某事）喜不自胜 his transports of rage 他的暴怒 
④ CountableMilitary (vehicle) 运输车 yùnshūchē (ship) 运输船 yùnshūchuán (aircraft) 运输机 yùnshūjī 
B.  /BrE tranˈspɔːt, trɑːn-, AmE trænˈspɔrt
transitive verb 
① (convey) 运输 yùnshū ‹goods›; 运送 yùnsòng ‹people›the van isn't big enough to transport my furniture 这辆货车不够大，运不了我的家具 
② (carry) 传送 chuánsòng blood transports oxygen round the body 血液将氧气输送到全身 the smell transported me back to my childhood 这种气味把我带回童年时代 
③ usually passive History (as punishment) 放逐 fàngzhú to be transported for sheep-stealing 因为偷羊被流放 
④ usually passive literary (affect) 使激动万分 shǐ jīdòng wànfēn to be transported with joy/anger (at seeing [somebody]) （见到某人时）高兴极了/气坏了 
transport 
▶verb 
tranˈspôrt 
[with object]
1 take or carry (people or goods) from one place to another by means of a vehicle, aircraft, or ship: the bulk of freight traffic was transported by truck. 
• cause (someone) to feel that they are in another place or time: for a moment she was transported to a warm summer garden on the night of a ball. 
• historical send (a convict) to a penal colony.
2 overwhelm (someone) with a strong emotion, especially joy: she was transported with pleasure. 
▶noun 
ˈtran(t)spôrt 

1 a system or means of conveying people or goods from place to place by means of a vehicle, aircraft, or ship: many possess their own forms of transport 
air transport. 
• the action of transporting something or the state of being transported: the transport of crude oil. 
• a large vehicle, ship, or aircraft used to carry troops or stores. 
• historical a convict who was transported to a penal colony.
2 (usually transports) an overwhelmingly strong emotion: art can send people into transports of delight. ORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French transporter or Latin transportare, from trans- ‘across’ + portare ‘carry.’
