tree 
BrE triː, AmE tri 

A.  noun 树木 shùmù an apple/a cherry tree 苹果/樱桃树 the tree of life/knowledge 生命/智慧之树 to be up a tree especially AmE colloquial 骑虎难下 to not see the wood for the trees 见树不见林 to grow on trees colloquial (be easily obtained) 容易得到 (plentiful) 多得很 money doesn't grow on trees 钱来之不易 jobs don't grow on trees 工作可不是遍地都有 to get to/to be at the top of the tree 达到/处于最高地位 if you work hard, you'll get to the top of the tree 如果你努力工作，就会成为人上人 to be out of one's tree colloquial (completely stupid) 愚不可及 (mad) 发疯 
B.  transitive verb AmE 
① Hunting 把…赶上树 bǎ… gǎnshang shù ‹animal›
② figurative colloquial (force into difficult situation) 把…逼进困境 bǎ… bījìn kùnjìng 
tree 
trē

▶noun
1 a woody perennial plant, typically having a single stem or trunk growing to a considerable height and bearing lateral branches at some distance from the ground. leaves of familiar trees of North America Compare with shrub1. 
• (in general use) any bush, shrub, or herbaceous plant with a tall erect stem, e.g., a banana plant.
2 a wooden structure or part of a structure. 
• archaic or literary the cross on which Jesus Christ was crucified. 
• archaic a gallows or gibbet.
3 a thing that has a branching structure resembling that of a tree. 
• (also tree diagram) a diagram with a structure of branching connecting lines, representing different processes and relationships. 
▶verb (trees, treeing, treed) [with object]
1 North American force (a hunted animal) to take refuge in a tree. 
• informal, chiefly US force (someone) into a difficult situation.
2 (as adjective treed) (of an area) planted with trees: sparsely treed grasslands. 
PHRASES
be unable to see the forest (or British wood) for the trees fail to grasp the main issue because of excessive attention to details. out of one's tree informal completely stupid; insane. up a tree informal, chiefly North American in a difficult situation without escape; cornered.DERIVATIVES treelessness noun. treelike 
-ˌlīk 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English trēow, trēo: from a Germanic variant of an Indo-European root shared by Greek doru ‘wood, spear,’ drus ‘oak.’
