trick 
BrE trɪk, AmE trɪk 

A.  noun 
① (cunning or deceitful act) 诡计 guǐjì (gimmick) 花招 huāzhāo a mean/clever trick 卑鄙的伎俩/巧妙的花招 it's a trick! 那是一个骗局！ it's the oldest trick in the book 那是众人皆知的老把戏 to try every trick in the book 使尽浑身解数 a trick of the light 光线引起的错觉 not or never to miss a trick 对一切了如指掌 
② (mischievous act) 恶作剧 èzuòjù he always pulls that trick 他老是开那种玩笑 to play a trick on [somebody] 捉弄某人 my memory plays tricks on me sometimes 我的记忆有时会发生紊乱 he's up to his old tricks 他又耍起了老花招 the computer is up to its tricks again 电脑又犯老毛病了 
③ (stunt) (by conjuror) 魔术 móshù (by juggler or animal) 绝技 juéjì to do (conjuring) tricks 变魔术 to perform a trick 表演绝技 to have a trick up one's sleeve 还有绝招没使出来 to do the trick 管用 the pills seem to have done the trick 药片好像起效了 how's tricks? colloquial 最近过得怎么样？ trick photography/a shot 特技摄影/镜头 trick riding 特技马术表演 
④ (knack, technique) 技巧 jìqiǎo (secret) 窍门 qiàomén there's no special trick to it 这没有什么特殊的技巧 the trick here is to … 这里的窍门在于… the tricks of the trade 门道 to have a trick of doing [something] 掌握做某事的诀窍 to know a trick or two or a few tricks (about [something]) 精通（某事） 
⑤ (habit) 习惯 xíguàn to have a or the trick of doing [something] 有做某事的习惯 
⑥ (in card games) [桥牌等的] 一圈 yī quān to win/take a trick 赢/玩一圈 
⑦ slang (prostitute's client) 嫖客 piáokè to turn tricks «prostitute» 接客卖淫 
B.  transitive verb 欺骗 qīpiàn I've been tricked! 我上当了！ to trick [somebody] into doing [something]; 欺骗某人做某事 to trick [somebody] into thinking that … 骗某人以为… to trick [somebody] out of [something]; 从某人处骗走某物 to trick one's way past the guard/into the club 骗过保安/蒙混进入夜总会 
C.  adjectiveattributive AmE 虚弱的 xūruò de ‹shoulder›he has a trick knee 他的膝盖不能吃力 PHRASAL VERB trick out 
A.  transitive verb[trick somebody out], [trick out somebody], usually passive 精心打扮 jīngxīn dǎban to be all tricked out (in one's best clothes) 穿着最好的衣服 
B.  reflexive verb to trick oneself out 精心打扮 jīngxīn dǎban he tricked himself out in tails (for the wedding) 他特意换上了一套燕尾服（去参加婚礼） 
trick 
trik

▶noun
1 a cunning or skillful act or scheme intended to deceive or outwit someone: he's a double-dealer capable of any mean trick. 
• a mischievous practical joke: she thought Elaine was playing some trick on her. 
• a skillful act performed for entertainment or amusement: he did conjuring tricks for his daughters. 
• an illusion: I thought I saw a flicker of emotion, but it was probably a trick of the light. 
• a clever or particular way of doing something: the trick is to put one ski forward and kneel.
2 a peculiar or characteristic habit or mannerism: she had a trick of clipping off certain words and phrases.
3 (in bridge, whist, and similar card games) a sequence of cards forming a single round of play. One card is laid down by each player, the highest card being the winner.
4 informal a prostitute's client.
5 a sailor's turn at the helm, usually lasting for two or four hours. 
▶verb [with object]
1 deceive or outwit (someone) by being cunning or skillful: buyers can be tricked by savvy sellers. 
• (trick someone into) use deception to make someone do (something): he tricked her into parting with the money. 
• (trick someone out of) use deception to deprive someone of (something): the king was tricked out of his land.
2 Heraldry sketch (a coat of arms) in outline, with the colors indicated by letters or signs. 
▶adjective [attributive]
1 intended or used to deceive or mystify, or to create an illusion: a trick question.
2 North American liable to fail; defective: a trick knee. 
PHRASES
do the trick informal achieve the required result. every trick in the book informal every available method of achieving what one wants. how's tricks? informal used as a friendly greeting: “How's tricks in your neck of the woods?” not miss a trick see miss1. the oldest trick in the book a ruse so hackneyed that it should no longer deceive anyone. tricks of the trade special ingenious techniques used in a profession or craft, especially those that are little known by outsiders. turn a trick informal (of a prostitute) have a session with a client. up to one's (old) tricks informal misbehaving in a characteristic way.PHRASAL VERBS trick someone/something out (or up) (usually be tricked out) dress or decorate someone or something in an elaborate or showy way: a Marine tricked out in World War II kit and weaponry.DERIVATIVES tricker noun. trickish adjective ( dated)ORIGIN late Middle English (as a noun): from an Old French dialect variant of triche, from trichier ‘deceive,’ of unknown origin. Current senses of the verb date from the mid 16th century.
