trim 
BrE trɪm, AmE trɪm 

A.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -mm-) 
① (cut) 修剪 xiūjiǎn ‹hair, nails, hedge, lawn›; 修 xiū ‹hem›to trim (the wick of) a lamp 剪灯花 to trim a plank of wood to size 把一块木料加工成要求的尺寸 
② (reduce) 削减 xuējiǎn ‹budget, expenditure, workforce›; 缩短 suōduǎn ‹text, speech›to trim [something] to the bone 把某物减少到最低限度 
③ (remove) 除去 chúqù ‹excess, amount, time›to trim [something] off or from [something]; 从某物中去除某物 to trim 5% off the budget 削减5％的预算 to trim six minutes off a speech 把讲话缩短6分钟 
④ (decorate) 装饰 zhuāngshì Culinary 修整 xiūzhěng ‹turkey, joint of meat›a coat trimmed with fur 毛皮镶边大衣 to trim a shop window AmE 装点橱窗 
⑤ Nautical 调整…以适应风向 tiáozhěng… yǐ shìyìng fēngxiàng ‹sail, vessel›
⑥ Nautical, Aviation (adjust balance of) 使…配平 shǐ… pèipíng ‹ship, aircraft›
⑦ (modify) 调整…以适应形势 tiáozhěng… yǐ shìyìng xíngshì ‹opinions, beliefs›to trim one's words to fit party policy 使言论与本党的方针政策保持一致 
B.  intransitive verb (present participle etc. -mm-) 见风使舵 jiàn fēng shǐ duò 
C.  noun 
① Countable(cut) 修剪 xiūjiǎn to give [somebody]/[something] a trim 为某人剪发/把某物修剪一下 to need a trim 需要修剪 
② Uncountable(good condition) to be in trim; 状况良好 zhuàngkuàng liánghǎo to be out of trim; 乱糟糟 luànzāozāo he's in good trim 他身体很好 tā shēntǐ hěn hǎo to get/keep oneself in trim 使自己/保持身体健康 shǐ zìjǐ/bǎochí shēntǐ jiànkāng to get the garden in trim 把花园收拾干净 bǎ huāyuán shōushi gānjìng 
③ Uncountable and countable(border) (on garment, linen) 饰边 shìbiān (on woodwork) 贴脸 tiēliǎn (on furniture) 镶边 xiāngbiān a red blazer with gold trim 镶金边的红色夹克 metal/wood trim 金属边饰/木包角 
④ UncountableAuto 装饰 zhuāngshì interior/exterior trim 内部/外部装饰 a car with grey trim 灰色座椅的汽车 
⑤ UncountableNautical (of ship) 适航状态 shìháng zhuàngtài to be in trim 装备停当 to be out of trim 未装备停当 
⑥ UncountableAviation 配平 pèipíng 
D.  adjective 
① (neat) 整洁的 zhěngjié de ‹person, appearance, ship›; 整齐的 zhěngqí de ‹hair›; 匀整的 yúnzhěng de ‹outline›to be neat and trim 干干净净 
② (slim) 苗条的 miáotiao de ‹figure, body›; 纤细的 xiānxì de ‹waistline›PHRASAL VERBS trim away transitive verb = trim off trim down 
A.  intransitive verb 减肥 jiǎnféi to trim down from 24 stone to
18 体重从24英石减到18英石 
B.  transitive verb[trim something down], [trim down something] 削减 xuējiǎn ‹budget, workforce, figure›; 降低 jiàngdī ‹estimate, ambitions›trim off transitive verb[trim off something], [trim something off] 修剪 xiūjiǎn ‹excess, hair, wick›to trim the fat off the meat 切掉肉上的肥膘 
trim 
trim

▶verb (trims, trimming, trimmed) [with object]
1 make (something) neat or of the required size or form by cutting away irregular or unwanted parts: trim the grass using a sharp mower. 
• cut off (irregular or unwanted parts): he was trimming the fat off some pork chops. 
• reduce the size, amount, or number of (something, typically expenditure or costs): Congress had to decide which current defense programs should be trimmed. 
• [no object] (trim down) (of a person) lose weight; become slimmer: he works on trimming down and eating right. 
• firm up or lose weight from (a part of one's body).
2 (usually be trimmed) decorate (something), typically with contrasting items or pieces of material: a pair of black leather gloves trimmed with fake fur.
3 adjust (sails) to take best advantage of the wind. 
• adjust the forward and after drafts of (a vessel) by changing the distribution of weight on board, especially cargo and ballast. 
• keep or adjust the degree to which (an aircraft) can be maintained at a constant altitude without any control forces being present. 
• [no object] adapt one's views to the prevailing political trends for personal advancement.
4 informal, dated get the better of (someone), typically by cheating them out of money.
5 informal, dated rebuke (someone) angrily. 
▶noun
1 additional decoration, typically along the edges of something and in contrasting color or material: suede sandals with gold trim 
we painted the buildings off-white with a blue trim. 
• decorative additions to a vehicle, typically the upholstery or interior lining of a car.
2 [in singular] an act of cutting off part of something in order to neaten it: his hair needs a trim. 
• a short piece of film cut out during the final editing stage.
3 the state of being in good order or condition: no one had been there for months—everything was out of trim.
4 the degree to which an aircraft can be maintained at a constant altitude without any control forces being present: the pilot's only problem was the need to constantly readjust the trim.
5 the difference between a vessel's forward and after drafts, especially as it affects its navigability. 
▶adjective (trimmer, trimmest) neat and smart in appearance; in good order: she kept her husband's clothes neat and trim 
a trim little villa. 
• (of a person or their body) slim and fit: she has a trim, athletic figure. 
PHRASES
in trim slim and fit. 
• Nautical in good order. trim one's sails (to the wind) make changes to suit one's new circumstances.DERIVATIVES trimly adverb. trimness 
ˈtrimnəs 
nounORIGIN Old English trymman, trymian ‘make firm, arrange,’ of which the adjective appears to be a derivative. The word's history is obscure; current verb senses date from the early 16th century when usage became frequent and served many purposes: this is possibly explained by spoken or dialect use in the Middle English period not recorded in extant literature.
