trouble 
BrE ˈtrʌb(ə)l, AmE ˈtrəb(ə)l 
A. noun 
① Uncountable and countable(problems) 问题 wèntí what's the trouble? 出什么事了？ to cause or give ([somebody]) trouble （给某人）带来困难 to make trouble for [somebody] 给某人制造麻烦 to have trouble doing [something] 做某事有困难 you may have trouble convincing the police 你也许很难让警方相信 to have trouble with [something]/[somebody] 某事物有麻烦/对付某人有困难 we're having a bit of trouble with our car 我们的车出了一点儿毛病 engine trouble 发动机故障 to be a trouble (to [somebody]) （对某人）是个麻烦 to be in trouble 处于困境 she's in trouble with the police 她犯事落入了警察的手里 to get or run into trouble 陷入困境 he's always getting into trouble at school 他在学校总惹麻烦 to get [somebody] into trouble 让某人有麻烦 to get a girl in(to) trouble colloquial dated 使女孩未婚先孕 to get out of trouble 脱离困境 to be asking for trouble colloquial 自找麻烦 
② Uncountable(discord) 纷争 fēnzhēng (fighting) 打斗 dǎdòu (rioting) 动乱 dòngluàn relationship troubles 家庭矛盾 the police had come expecting trouble and were in full riot gear 警察预料到会有暴乱，所以身穿全套防暴服赶来 to be looking for trouble colloquial 寻衅滋事 to make trouble 闹事 they seem bent on making trouble 他们好像执意要闹事 there's trouble brewing 骚乱即将发生 
③ Uncountable(effort, inconvenience) 不便 bùbiàn it's no trouble (at all)! （一点儿都）不麻烦！ it's so much trouble preparing all the ingredients 准备所有的配料太费事了 to go to a lot of trouble (to do [something]) 不辞辛劳（做某事） they didn't go to any trouble to disguise what they felt 他们没有试图掩饰自己的感受 to go to the trouble of doing [something] 费力做某事 to go to or take a lot of trouble over [something] 在某事物上花许多工夫 she went to an awful lot of trouble over the arrangements 她下了很大工夫进行安排 to take the trouble to do [something] 不辞辛苦做某事 to save [somebody]/oneself the trouble (of doing [something]) 为某人/自己省却（做某事的）麻烦 it's not worth the trouble 这不值得费力气 
④ UncountableMedicine 病痛 bìngtòng heart trouble 心脏病 back trouble 背痛 my leg's been giving me trouble 我的腿一直疼 
B.  troubles noun plural 
① (worries, woes) 烦恼 fánnǎo to tell [somebody] one's troubles 向某人诉苦 to listen to [somebody's] troubles 听某人诉苦 may all your troubles be little ones! 但愿你们的烦恼都不是烦恼！ ［传统上对新婚夫妇的祝福语］his troubles are over 他死了 money troubles 金钱上的困扰 
② the troubles BrE Politics 动乱时期 ［北爱尔兰民族主义者与反自治主义者、新教徒与天主教徒之间的暴力冲突］dòngluàn shíqī 
C.  transitive verb 
① (worry) «problem, anxiety» 困扰 kùnrǎo I wonder what's troubling her 我不知道什么事让她愁眉苦脸 it is going to cost a lot of money, but don't let that trouble you 这要花很多钱，但你不要担心 
② (bother) 麻烦 máfan sorry to trouble you! is this your car? 对不起，打扰您一下！这是您的车吗？ may I trouble you for the butter/your signature? 麻烦递一下黄油/签一下名好吗？ 
③ (cause pain, discomfort) «part of body, illness» 使疼痛 shǐ téngtòng my back is troubling me again 我的背又开始痛了 to be troubled by or with [something]; 受某病痛折磨 he's been troubled by a nasty cough 他一直在剧烈地咳嗽 
D.  reflexive verbto trouble oneself 劳神 láoshén don't trouble yourself! 别费心了！ they didn't trouble themselves to explain 他们没有费神去解释 
E.  intransitive verb 
① (bother) 费心 fèixīn don't trouble colloquial 别费心了 don't trouble about me: I'll be OK 不用担心我，我不会有事的 don't trouble to meet me, I'll get a taxi 不必来接我，我打的好了 don't trouble to knock, will you! ironic 门都懒得敲了，是吧！ 
② (worry) 忧虑 yōulǜ to trouble about or over or with [somebody]/[something]; 为某人/某事物担心 she was too concerned with her own feelings to trouble about mine 她一味地想着自己的感受，都不关心我怎么想 
trouble 
▶noun
1 you've caused enough trouble already: problems, difficulty, bother, inconvenience, worry, concern, anxiety, distress, stress, strife, agitation, harassment, hassle, unpleasantness.
2 she poured out all her troubles: problem, misfortune, difficulty, trial, tribulation, trauma, burden, pain, woe, grief, heartache, misery, affliction, vexation, suffering.
3 he's gone to a lot of trouble to help you: effort, inconvenience, fuss, bother, exertion, work, labor; pains, care, attention, thought.
4 Rodney has been no trouble at all: nuisance, bother, inconvenience, irritation, irritant, problem, trial, pest, thorn in someone's flesh/side, headache, pain, pain in the neck/backside, drag; informal pain in the butt, burr under someone's saddle, nudnik.
5 you're too gullible, that's your trouble: shortcoming, flaw, weakness, weak point, failing, fault, imperfection, defect, blemish; problem, difficulty.
6 he had a history of heart trouble: disease, illness, sickness, ailments, complaints, problems; disorder, disability.
7 the crash was due to engine trouble: malfunction, dysfunction, failure, breakdown.
8 a game marred by serious crowd trouble: disturbance, disorder, unrest, unruliness, fighting, fracas, breach of the peace.
▶verb
1 this matter had been troubling her for some time: worry, bother, concern, disturb, upset, agitate, distress, perturb, annoy, irritate, vex, irk, nag, niggle, prey on someone's mind, weigh down, burden; informal bug.
2 he was troubled by bouts of ill health: be afflicted by, be burdened with; suffer from, be cursed with, be plagued by.
3 there is nothing you need trouble about: worry, upset oneself, fret, be anxious, be concerned, concern oneself.
4 don't trouble to see me out: bother, take the trouble, go to the trouble, exert oneself, go out of one's way.
5 I'm sorry to trouble you: inconvenience, bother, impose on, disturb, put out, pester, hassle; formal discommode.
PHRASES
in trouble he comes to visit only when he's in trouble: in difficulty, in difficulties, in a mess, in a bad way, in a predicament, in dire straits; informal in a fix, in a pickle, in a tight corner/spot, in a hole, in hot water, up a tree, up a/the creek, up against it. QUOTE No stranger to trouble myself, I am learning to care for the unhappy.Virgil Aeneid (1st century bc )
