true 
BrE truː, AmE tru 

A.  adjective 
① (based on fact, not a lie) 真实的 zhēnshí de ‹fact, version›; 如实的 rúshí de ‹account, report›unfortunately, the rumour turned out to be true 很不幸，传闻最后证实确有其事 it can't be true! 这不可能是真的！ it is simply not true that I was there 我根本不在那里 it is true to say that they disliked each other 的确可以说他们俩相互厌恶 that is not true of the people I have met 我遇到的人可不是这样的 it is (only) too true (that …) （…）千真万确 to be or hold true (of [somebody]/[something]) （对某人/某事物）同样适用 what is true of adults is true of children 对大人适用的，对小孩也一样 to come true 实现 may all your wishes/dreams come true! 愿你所有的愿望都实现/祝你梦想都能成真！ to be/seem too good to be true 好得/看上去好得令人难以相信 many a true word is spoken in jest proverb 许多真话都是在玩笑中说出的 
② attributive (real, genuine) 真正的 zhēnzhèng de ‹Londoner, professional›; 纯种的 chúnzhǒng de ‹mammal›an artist in the true sense of the word 名副其实的艺术家 he reveals his true character to very few people 他没有向几个人表露过他的本性 the true face of capitalism 资本主义的真面目 
③ (heartfelt, sincere) 真诚的 zhēnchéng de ‹feeling, understanding›; 虔诚的 qiánchéng de ‹faith, believer›
④ (accurate) 逼真的 bīzhēn de ‹copy, bill, likeness›; 精确的 jīngquè de ‹judgement, analysis›to be true to [something]; 忠实于某物 this new production remains true to the essence of Shakespeare's play 新作品保持了莎士比亚戏剧的精髓 to be true to life «film, book» 写实 «painting, sculpture» 逼真 bīzhēn to be or run true to type or form 很典型/一如既往 his aim was true 他瞄得很准 
⑤ (faithful, loyal) 忠实的 zhōngshí de ‹friend, patriot, servant›to be true to [somebody]/[something]; 对某人/某事忠诚 my lover is true to me literary 我的爱人对我很忠诚 to be true to one's word or promise 信守诺言 to be true to one's principles/beliefs/ideas 坚持自己的原则/信念/想法 to be true to oneself 按照自己的信念做事 good men and true archaic or literary 诚实的人 
⑥ Construction (in line) 平的 píng de ‹surface›; 直的 zhí de ‹wall, post›; 处于正确位置的 chǔyú zhèngquè wèizhi de ‹frame, wheel, beam›
⑦ Geography 根据地极确定的 gēnjù dìjí quèdìng de 
B.  adverb 
① (straight) 笔直地 bǐzhí de ‹aim, run›the arrow flew true, straight to the mark 箭不偏不倚地向靶子射去 
② literary (truthfully) 真实地 zhēnshí de ‹say›to speak true 实话实说 
C.  nounUncountableConstruction 笔直 bǐzhí out of true 歪斜的 this post is half an inch out of true 这根杆子偏斜了半英寸 
D.  transitive verb Construction 弄平 nòngpíng ‹surface›; 弄直 nòngzhí ‹wall, post›; 摆正 bǎizhèng ‹frame, wheel, beam›
true 
tro͞o

▶adjective (truer, truest)
1 in accordance with fact or reality: a true story 
of course it's true 
that is not true of the people I am talking about. 
• [attributive] rightly or strictly so called; genuine: people are still willing to pay for true craftsmanship 
we believe in true love. 
• [attributive] real or actual: he has guessed my true intentions. 
• said when conceding a point in argument or discussion: true, it faced north, but you got used to that.
2 accurate or exact: it was a true depiction. 
• (of a note) exactly in tune. 
• (of a compass bearing) measured relative to true north: steer 085 degrees true. 
• correctly positioned, balanced, or aligned; upright or level.
3 loyal or faithful: he was a true friend. 
• [predicative] (true to) accurately conforming to (a standard or expectation); faithful to: this entirely new production remains true to the essence of Lorca's play.
4 chiefly archaic honest: we appeal to all good men and true to rally to us. 
▶adverb
1 chiefly literary truly: Hobson spoke truer than he knew.
2 accurately or without variation. 
▶verb (trues, truing or trueing, trued) [with object] bring (an object, wheel, or other construction) into the exact shape, alignment, or position required. 
PHRASES
come true actually happen or become the case: dreams can come true. out of true not in the correct or exact shape or alignment: take care not to pull the frame out of true.many a true word is spoken in jest proverb a humorous remark not intended to be taken seriously may turn out to be accurate after all. true to form (or type) being or behaving as expected: true to form, they took it well.true to life accurately representing real events or objects: artworks of the period were often composed in strident colors not true to life.DERIVATIVES trueness 
ˈtro͞onəs 
nounORIGIN Old English trēowe, trȳwe ‘steadfast, loyal’; related to Dutch getrouw,German treu, also to truce .
