tuck 
BrE tʌk, AmE tək 

A.  transitive verb 
① (push or fold into confined or concealed space) 把…塞进 bǎ… sāijìn ‹cloth, garment, paper›; 挽起 wǎnqǐ ‹skirt›; 掖好 yēhǎo ‹shirt, sheet›; 盘起 pánqǐ ‹hair, legs›; «bird» 收拢 shōulǒng ‹wings›he tucked his trousers into his belt/boots 他把裤腰掖到皮带里/裤腿塞进靴子里 she carried a shotgun tucked under her arm 她腋窝下夹了一把猎枪 she tucked the blanket around his legs 她用毯子裹住他的腿 
② (make comfortable in bed) 为…掖好被子 wèi… yēhǎo bèizi to tuck [somebody] in(to) bed; 给某人盖好被子 to tuck a child into bed 给孩子掖好被窝 
③ (in sewing) 在…上打褶 zài… shang dǎzhě ‹dress, cloth›tuck it and then press it into shape 把它打褶熨成型 
B.  intransitive verb «garment» 掖好 yēhǎo the blouse tucks into the skirt 衬衫掖在裙子里 
C.  noun 
① Countable(in sewing) 褶 zhě to make several tucks in the cloth 在布上缝几个褶 
② CountableSport (in diving) 抱膝 bào xī (in gymnastics) 团身 tuán shēn (in downhill skiing) 蹲伏 dūnfú 
③ CountableMedicine colloquial 抽脂术 chōuzhīshù a tummy tuck 紧腹手术 
④ Uncountable BrE colloquial dated (school snacks) 零食 língshí PHRASAL VERBS tuck away transitive verb[tuck something away], [tuck away something] 
① (hide) (for tidiness) 收起 shōuqǐ ‹document›(in reserve) 储存 chǔcún ‹money›(for safety) 收藏 shōucáng ‹valuables›she has £50,000 tucked away in a personal bank account 她让人把50,000英镑存入个人银行账户 
② to be tucked away (be secluded) «village, building» 被隐藏 bèi yǐncáng a cottage tucked away in the depths of a wood 掩藏在树林深处的小屋 tuck in 
A.  transitive verb 
① [tuck something in], [tuck in something] (fasten in) 掖好 yēhǎo ‹garment, sheet›tuck your shirt in! 把衬衫掖好！ 
② [tuck somebody in], [tuck in somebody] (make comfortable in bed) 为…掖被窝 wèi… yē bèiwō I'll read you a story and then tuck you in 我先给你念一个故事，然后帮你掖进被窝 
B.  intransitive verb colloquial (eat) 狼吞虎咽 láng tūn hǔ yàn tuck into transitive verb[tuck into something] colloquial (eat) 大口吃 dàkǒu chī ‹food›tuck up transitive verb 
① [tuck something up], [tuck up something] (fasten up) 撩起 liāoqǐ ‹garment›; 盘起 pánqǐ ‹hair, legs›
② [tuck somebody up], [tuck up somebody] (make comfortable in bed) 为…掖被窝 wèi… yē bèiwō 
tuck 
tək

▶verb
1 [with object] push, fold, or turn (the edges or ends of something, especially a garment or bedclothes) so as to hide them or hold them in place: he tucked his shirt into his trousers. 
• (tuck someone in) make someone, especially a child, comfortable in bed by pulling the edges of the bedclothes firmly under the mattress: he carried her back to bed and tucked her in. 
• draw (something, especially part of one's body) together into a small space: she tucked her legs under her. 
• put (something) away in a specified place or way so as to be hidden, safe, comfortable, or tidy: the colonel was coming toward her, his gun tucked under his arm.
2 [with object] make a flattened, stitched fold in (a garment or material), typically so as to shorten or tighten it, or for decoration. 
▶noun
1 a flattened, stitched fold in a garment or material, typically one of several parallel folds put in a garment for shortening, tightening, or decoration: a dress with tucks along the bodice. 
• [usually with modifier] informal a surgical operation to reduce surplus flesh or fat: a tummy tuck.
2 British informal, dated food, typically cakes and candy, eaten by children at school as a snack: [as modifier] : a tuck shop.
3 (also tuck position) (in diving, gymnastics, downhill skiing, etc.) a position with the knees bent and held close to the chest, often with the hands clasped around the shins. PHRASAL VERBS tuck something away
1 store something in a secure place: employees can tuck away a percentage of their pretax salary. 
• (be tucked away) be located in an inconspicuous or concealed place: the police station was tucked away in a square behind the main street.
2 informal eat a lot of food. tuck in (or into) informal eat food heartily: I tucked into the bacon and scrambled eggs.ORIGIN Old English tūcian ‘to punish, ill-treat’; related to tug. Influenced in Middle English by Middle Dutch tucken ‘pull sharply.’
