twin 
BrE twɪn, AmE twɪn 

A.  noun 
① (one of two offspring) (human) 双胞胎之一 shuāngbāotāi zhī yī (animal) 双生崽之一 shuāngshēngzǎi zhī yī to be expecting twins 怀着双胞胎 he has a twin 他有一个双胞胎兄弟 
② (one of two objects) 一对相像事物中的一个 yī duì xiāngxiàng shìwù zhòng de yī gè the plate was one of a pair, but I broke its twin 这盘子本来有一对儿，但是我把另一只打碎了 
③ (room) [宾馆] 有一对单人床的房间 yǒu yī duì dānrénchuáng de fángjiān I've booked one double and one twin 我预订了一个双人间和一个标间 
B.  adjective 
① (born as twins) 孪生的 luánshēng de ‹girls, boys›; 双生的 shuāngshēng de ‹lambs›she has a twin sister 她有一个孪生姐妹 
② (paired) 成对的 chéngduì de ‹engines›the twin towers of the World Trade Center 世贸中心的双子塔 a ship with twin propellers 有双螺旋桨的船 
③ (combined) 双重的 shuāngchóng de ‹aims, problems, roles›the twin evils of poverty and violence 贫穷与暴力双重弊端 
④ Botany 并蒂的 bìngdì de ‹flowers›; 双生的 shuāngshēng de ‹leaves›
C.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -nn-) 
① BrE (link for cultural exchange) 使…结成姐妹城市 shǐ… jiéchéng jiěmèi chéngshì ‹town›Oxford is twinned with Bonn 牛津与波恩结成了友好城市 
② (combine) 糅合 róuhé ‹ideas, themes›the opera twins the themes of love and death 这部歌剧糅合了爱情与死亡的主题 
twin 
twin

▶noun
1 one of two children or animals born at the same birth. 
• a person or thing that is exactly like another: there was a bruise on his cheek, a twin to the one on mine. 
• (the Twins) the zodiacal sign or constellation Gemini.
2 something containing or consisting of two matching or corresponding parts, in particular: 
• a twin-bedded room. 
• a twin-engined aircraft. 
• a twinned crystal. 
▶adjective [attributive] forming, or being one of, a pair born at one birth: she gave birth to twin boys 
her twin sister. 
• forming a matching, complementary, or closely connected pair: the twin problems of economic failure and social disintegration. 
• Botany growing in pairs: twin seed leaves. 
• (of a bedroom) containing two single beds. 
• (of a crystal) twinned. 
▶verb (twins, twinning, twinned) [with object] (usually be twinned) link; combine: the company twinned its core business of brewing with that of distilling. ORIGIN late Old English twinn ‘double,’ from twi- ‘two’; related to Old Norse tvinnr. Current verb senses date from late Middle English.
