twist 
BrE twɪst, AmE twɪst 

A.  transitive verb 
① (turn) 转动 zhuàndòng to twist a knob clockwise 顺时针转动旋钮 to twist [somebody's] arm 把某人的胳膊扭到背后 if I twist her arm, she'll do it figurative 如果我给她施加一点压力，她会做这事的 
② (wind, twine) 缠绕 chánrào to twist [something] round or around [something]; 把某物缠绕在某物上 she was twisting a lock of hair round her finger 她把一缕头发绕在手指上 to twist the bed sheets into a rope 把床单拧成一条绳子 
③ (bend, distort) 弯曲 wānqū ‹rod›to twist [something] out of shape 把某物扭变形 
④ figurative (misrepresent) 歪曲 wāiqū ‹statement, fact›to twist logic 歪曲逻辑 
⑤ (sprain) 扭伤 niǔshāng to twist one's neck/wrist/ankle 扭伤脖子/手腕/脚踝 
⑥ BrE colloquial (swindle) 欺骗 qīpiàn 
B.  reflexive verb 扭转 niǔzhuǎn he twisted himself free 他转身挣脱了 the snake twisted itself around its prey 这条蛇缠住了猎物 
C.  intransitive verb 
① (curl) «rope, flex» 打结 dǎjié ; «person» 扭动身体 niǔdòng shēntǐ the cord has (got) twisted 线绳打结了 he twisted free of their grasp 他从他们的手中挣脱出来 to twist round or around/up [something]; «climbing plant, snake» 缠绕某物 
② (wind) «road, river, vehicle» 蜿蜒前行 wānyán qiánxíng to twist and turn 蜿蜒曲折 to twist in and out of the traffic 在车流中绕来绕去 
③ (dance) 跳扭摆舞 tiào niǔbǎiwǔ 
④ (in cards) 牌面朝上 páimiàn cháo shàng do you want to twist or stick? 你要不要牌？ 
D.  noun 
① Countable(action) 旋转 xuánzhuǎn to give [something] a twist, give a twist to [something] 转动一下 ‹handle, cap› 弯一下 wān yī xià ‹wire›she gave my arm a sharp twist 她使劲扭了我胳膊一下 with a sudden twist, she got away from him 她猛一转身挣脱了他 
② Countable(bend) (in rope, wool) 缠绕 chánrào (in pipe, road) 拐弯处 guǎiwānchù the path follows the twists and turns of the stream 小路沿小河蜿蜒曲折 to get [something] into a twist 把某物缠成一团 he managed to get all his facts into a terrible twist figurative 他居然把所有事实弄得一团糟 to get oneself into a twist 把自己搞得焦虑不安 to be or go round the twist BrE colloquial 疯了 to drive [somebody] round the twist BrE colloquial 逼疯某人 
③ Countablefigurative (in plot, story, series of events) 转折 zhuǎnzhé a strange twist of fate 命运的离奇转折 to give [something] a new twist 赋予某事物新意 (to have) a twist in the tail （有）一个出乎预料的结局 
④ Countable(spiral shape) (of yarn) 一匹 yī pǐ (of thread, hair) 一卷 yī juǎn (of smoke) 一缕 yī lǚ a twist of paper 一卷纸 a twist of lemon 一片柠檬 
⑤ Uncountable(dance) the twist 扭摆舞 niǔbǎiwǔ 
⑥ Countable BrE colloquial (swindle) 欺诈 qīzhà PHRASAL VERBS twist around transitive verb, intransitive verb = twist round twist off 
A.  transitive verb[twist something off], [twist off something] 拧开 nǐngkāi ‹lid›; 拧掉 nǐngdiào ‹branch›to twist the cap off 把盖子拧开 
B.  intransitive verb «lid» 拧开 nǐngkāi the cap twists off 盖子拧开了 twist round especially BrE 
A.  transitive verb[twist something round], [twist round something] 转动 zhuàndòng she twisted her ring round and round on her finger 她把手指上的戒指转来转去 to twist one's head round 转过头 
B.  intransitive verb 转身 zhuǎnshēn he twisted round to look at me 他转过身来看我 
C.  reflexive verb to twist oneself round; 转身 zhuǎnshēn he managed to twist himself round in the restricted space 他设法在局促的空间里转过身来 twist together transitive verb[twist something together], [twist together something] 把…缠在一起 bǎ… chán zài yīqǐ ‹fibres, hairs›she twisted her hands together nervously 她紧张地把双手绞在一起 twist up transitive verb[twist something up], [twist up something] 揉 róu ‹paper›she twisted up the scraps of paper into a ball 她把纸屑揉成一团 she twisted her hair up into a bun 她把头发盘成髻 
twist 
▶verb
1 the impact twisted the chassis: crumple, crush, buckle, mangle, warp, deform, distort.
2 her face twisted with rage: contort, screw up.
3 Ma anxiously twisted a handkerchief: wring, squeeze.
4 he twisted around in his seat: turn (around), swivel (around), spin (around), pivot, rotate, revolve.
5 she twisted out of his grasp: wriggle, squirm, worm one's way, wiggle.
6 I twisted my ankle: sprain, wrench, turn.
7 you are twisting my words: distort, misrepresent, change, alter, pervert, falsify, warp, skew, misinterpret, misconstrue, misstate, misquote; garble.
8 he twisted the radio knob: twiddle, adjust, turn, rotate, swivel.
9 she twisted her hair around her finger: wind, twirl, coil, curl, wrap.
10 the wires were twisted together: intertwine, twine, interlace, weave, plait, braid, coil, wind.
11 the road twisted and turned: wind, bend, curve, turn, meander, weave, zigzag, swerve, snake.
▶noun
1 a twist of the wrist: turn, twirl, spin, rotation; flick.
2 the twists of the road: bend, curve, turn, zigzag, kink.
3 the twists of the plot: convolution, complication, complexity, intricacy; surprise, revelation.
4 a modern twist on an old theme: interpretation, slant, outlook, angle, approach, treatment; variation, change, difference.
PHRASES
twist someone's arm I didn't want to go with them, but Hazel twisted my arm: pressurize someone, coerce someone, force someone; persuade someone; informal lean on someone, browbeat someone, strong-arm someone, bulldoze someone, railroad someone, put the screws to/on someone.
