two 
BrE tuː, AmE tu 

A.  noun 
① (number, quantity) 二 èr two plus two equals four 2加2等于4 in December nineteen hundred and two 在1902年12月 we live at (number) two, Victoria Road 我们住在维多利亚路2号 her phone number is two six double two 她的电话号码是2622 there are two of them 他们有两个人 in a day or two 一两天之后 to break/cut [something] in two 把某物掰/切成两半 to put two and two together 根据现有情况推断 
② (in time) 2点钟
2 diǎn zhōng at two (o'clock) 在2点 
③ (group) (of people) 两个人 liǎng gè rén (of things) 两个物 liǎng gè wù in twos (people) 两人一组地 (things) 两个一组地 in twos and threes 三三两两地 two by two 成双成对地 that makes two of us colloquial 我也一样 → company 
③ 
④ (on playing card) 2点
2 diǎn (domino) 2点的多米诺骨牌
2 diǎn de duōmǐnuò gǔpái the two of diamonds 方块2 
⑤ (age) 2岁
2 suì 
B.  adjective 
① (as quantity) 两的 liǎng de two cats 两只猫 two books 两本书 two weeks 两周 
② (in age) 两岁的 liǎng suì de he's nearly two 他快两岁了 our house is only two years old 我们的房子才造了两年 
③ (in series) 第二的 dì-èr de number two 2号 page two 第2页 
two 
to͞o

▶cardinal number equivalent to the sum of one and one; one less than three; 2: two years ago 
a romantic weekend for two in Paris 
two of Amy's friends. (Roman numeral: ii, II) 
• a group or unit of two people or things: they would straggle home in ones and twos. 
• two years old: he is only two. 
• two o'clock: the bar closed at two. 
• a size of garment or other merchandise denoted by two. 
• a playing card or domino with two pips. 
PHRASES
a —— or two (or two or three ——) used to denote a small but unspecified number: a minute or two had passed.be two a penny see penny. in two in or into two halves or pieces: he tore the piece of paper in two. in two shakes (of a lamb's tail) see shake. it takes two to tango see tango1. put two and two together draw an obvious conclusion from what is known or evident. that makes two of us one is in the same position or holds the same opinion as the previous speaker: “I haven't a clue!” “That makes two of us.” two by two side by side in pairs.two can play that game used to assert that another person's bad behavior can be copied to that person's disadvantage. one's two cents (or two cents' worth) North American informal an unsolicited opinion: Mom got her two cents in.two's company, three's a crowd used to indicate that two people, especially lovers, should be left alone together. two heads are better than one proverb it's helpful to have the advice or opinion of a second person.ORIGIN Old English twā (feminine and neuter), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch twee and German zwei, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin and Greek duo. Compare with twain .
