type 
BrE tʌɪp, AmE taɪp 

A.  noun 
① Countable(variety, kind) 类型 lèixíng a type of [something]; 某物的一种 all types of jobs, jobs of all types 各种各样的工作 I'm not the or that type 我不是那种人 this is definitely my type of place colloquial 这毫无疑问是我中意的那种地方 he's not my type colloquial 他不是我喜欢的类型 
② Countablecolloquial (person) 某种人 mǒu zhǒng rén an army type 军人一类的人 
③ Uncountable and countablePrinting (for printing) 活字 huózì (on page) 字体 zìtǐ metal type 金属活字 bold/italic type 黑体/斜体 to be in type 付排 
④ Countable(archetype) 典型 diǎnxíng her characters are types rather than individuals 她塑造的人物是模式化的，缺乏个性 
B.  -type combining form …类型的 … lèixíng de a documentarytype film 纪实类影片 
C.  transitive verb 
① (on typewriter, keyboard) 在…上打字 zài… shang dǎzì ‹page›; 键入 jiànrù ‹word›a typed letter 打印的信 to type [something] into a computer/on to a screen 把某内容输入电脑/打到屏幕上 to type over a mistake 打错字 
② (classify) 给…分型 gěi… fēnxíng ‹tissue›to type blood samples 给血样分类 to be typed as [something]; 被看作某类型 
D.  intransitive verb 打字 dǎzì PHRASAL VERBS type in transitive verb[type something in], [type in something] 
① (on computer) 键入 jiànrù ‹word, command›to type in the file name 键入文件名 
② (on typewriter) 打出 dǎchū ‹word, letter›type out transitive verb[type something out], [type out something] 
① (put in typed form) 打出 dǎchū ‹receipt, letter›I'd prefer it if you typed out the list 我希望你把单子打出来 
② (erase) 打字覆盖 dǎ zì fùgài ‹error, name›if you make a mistake, you can just type it out 打错了就在上面再打字遮住 type up transitive verb[type something up], [type up something] 把…打出来 bǎ… dǎ chulai ‹note, draft, report, essay›
type 
tīp

▶noun
1 a category of people or things having common characteristics: type
3 this type of heather grows better in a drier habitat 
blood types. 
• a person, thing, or event considered as a representative of a type: it's not the type of car I'd want my daughter to drive 
I'm an adventurous type. 
• [with modifier] informal a person of a specified character or nature: professor types in tweed. 
• (one's type) informal the sort of person one likes or finds attractive: she's not really my type. 
• Linguistics an abstract category or class of linguistic item or unit, as distinct from actual occurrences in speech or writing. Contrasted with token.
2 a person or thing symbolizing or exemplifying the ideal or defining characteristics of something: she characterized his witty sayings as the type of modern wisdom. 
• an object, conception, or work of art serving as a model for subsequent artists. 
• Botany & Zoology an organism or taxon chosen as having the essential characteristics of its group. 
• short for type specimen.
3 printed characters or letters: bold or italic type. 
• a piece of metal with a raised letter or character on its upper surface, for use in letterpress printing. 
• the pieces of metal used in letterpress printing collectively.
4 a design on either side of a medal or coin.
5 Theology a foreshadowing in the Old Testament of a person or event of the Christian tradition. 
▶verb [with object]
1 write (something) on a typewriter or computer by pressing the keys: he typed out the second draft 
[no object] : I am learning how to type.
2 Medicine determine the type to which (a person or their blood or tissue) belongs: the kidney was typed.
3 short for typecast. 
PHRASES
in type Printing composed and ready for printing.DERIVATIVES typal 
-pəl 
adjective ( rare)ORIGIN late 15th century (in the sense ‘symbol, emblem’): from French, or from Latin typus, from Greek tupos ‘impression, figure, type,’ from tuptein ‘to strike.’ The use in printing dates from the early 18th century; the general sense ‘category with common characteristics’ arose in the mid 19th century.
