under 
BrE ˈʌndə, AmE ˈəndər 

A.  preposition 
① (below) 在…下面 zài… xiàmian (moving below) 到…下面 dào… xiàmian (passing below) 从…下面 cóng… xiàmian the box under the bed 床底下的盒子 the apple rolled under the table/sofa 苹果滚到了床/沙发底下 to come out from under [something] 从…底下出来 ‹table›to tuck [something] under one's arm 把某物夹在胳膊下面 to slide [something] under the door 把某物从门下塞进去 
② (at lower level than) 在…下方 zài… xiàfāng to shelter under the wall 躲藏在墙根下 to place a ladder under the window 把梯子支在窗户下面 to have dark rings under one's eyes 眼睛下面有黑眼圈 
③ (covered by) 由…覆盖着 yóu… fùgàizhe fossils buried under the earth 埋在地下的化石 the cellar was under several feet of water 地下室在水下几英尺 to sleep under a duvet 盖着羽绒被睡觉 
④ (behind, within) 在…里层 zài… lǐcéng (moving behind) 到…里面 dào… lǐmian under the paint there was wallpaper 涂料下层有墙纸 she slid the envelope under her jacket 她把信封塞到夹克里面 
⑤ figurative (concealed by) 在…背后 zài… bèihòu to have a kind heart under a cool exterior 冷漠的外表下有一颗善良的心 
⑥ (less than) 不到 bùdào to take (us) under an hour 花（我们）不到一个小时 temperatures under 10°C 低于10°C的气温 children under five 不满5岁的儿童 an income of under £20,000 不足2万英镑的收入 
⑦ (lower in rank than) 低于 dīyú I was under him in the hierarchy 我比他等级低 those under the rank of sergeant 军士以下衔级的人 
⑧ (subordinate to) 从属于 cóngshǔ yú I have 50 people under me 我手下有50个人 to have 900 men under one's command 指挥着900名士兵 
⑨ (taught by) 以…为师 yǐ… wéi shī to study under [somebody] 师从于某人 
⑩ (during) 在…期间 zài… qījiān England under the Tudors 都铎王朝统治时期的英格兰 plans made under the last government 上一届政府制订的计划 
⑪ (according to) 根据 gēnjù under contract 根据合约 under the law 依据法律 
⑫ (in state of) 处于…状况 chǔyú… zhuàngkuàng land under cultivation 正在耕作的土地 the situation is under control 局势受到了控制 to be under guarantee 在保修期内 to be under orders to do [something] 奉命做某事 under anaesthetic or anaesthesia 处于麻醉状态 
⑬ (using as name) 以…（名字） yǐ… (míngzi) she goes under the name of … 她名叫… to write under a pseudonym 用笔名写作 
⑭ (in classification) 归入 guīrù books classified under Fiction 小说类书籍 under another heading 在另一个标题下 
⑮ Computing 在…环境下 zài… huánjìng xia the program runs under DOS 该程序在DOS环境下运行 
⑯ (planted with) 有…植被 yǒu… zhíbèi fields under wheat 麦田 areas still under virgin forest 仍被原始森林覆盖的区域 
B.  adverb 
① (below) 在下面 zài xiàmian (passing below) 从下面 cóng xiàmian to run to the bed and crawl under 跑过去钻到床下 to pull up the covers and crawl under 拉起被单钻进去 to close the door and slide [something] under 关上门把某物从下面塞进去 
② (below surface) 在表面下 zài biǎomiàn xia to go under «diver» 下潜 «ship» 下沉 xiàchén he went under for the third time 他第三次潜到水下 to stay under «diver» 潜在水中 to sink under 沉入水中 
③ (less) 不到 bùdào children of six and under 6岁及以下的儿童 items at £10 and under 10英镑及以下的物品 to run five minutes under «event» 持续不足5分钟 
④ (unconscious) 处于昏迷 chǔyú hūnmí to put [somebody] under 使某人失去知觉 to feel oneself going under 觉得自己要昏厥 to be or stay under for three minutes 昏迷3分钟 
under 
ˈəndər

▶preposition
1 extending or directly below: vast stores of oil under Alaska 
the streams that ran under the melting glaciers. 
• below (something covering or protecting): under several feet of water 
a hot plate under an insulated lid.
2 at a lower level than: the room under his study. 
• behind (a physical surface): it was written on the new canvas under a gluey coating. 
• behind or hidden behind (an appearance or disguise): he had a deep sense of fun under his quiet exterior. 
• lower in grade or rank than: under him in the hierarchy.
3 controlled, managed, or governed by: the country is now under martial law 
I was under his spell. 
• during (a specified time period, reign, or administration): it occurred under the pontificate of Paul I
I.  
• as a reaction to or undergoing the pressure of (something): the sofa creaked under his weight 
certain institutions may be under threat. 
• as provided for by the rules of; in accordance with: flowers supplied under contract by a local florist. 
• used to express grouping or classification: file it under “lost” 
published under his own name. 
• Computing within the environment of (a particular operating system): the program runs under DO
S. 
4 lower than (a specified amount, rate, norm, or age): they averaged just under 2.8 percent.
5 undergoing (a process): under construction. 
• in an existent state of: children living under difficult circumstances. 
• planted with: fields under wheat. 
▶adverb
1 extending or directly below something: weaving the body through the crossbars, over and under, over and under.
2 under water: he was floating for some time but suddenly went under. 
▶adjective
1 denoting the lowest part or surface of something; on the underside: the under part of the shell is concave.
2 unconscious, typically as a result of general anesthesia: the operation was quick—she was only under for
15 minutes. DERIVATIVES undermost 
ˈəndərˌmōst 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch onder and German unter .
