understand 
BrE ʌndəˈstand, AmE ˌəndərˈstænd
(past tense, past participle understood) 
A.  transitive verb 
① (grasp meaning of) 懂 dǒng (know operation of) 了解 liǎojiě (interpret) 理解 lǐjiě can you understand French? 你懂法语吗？ I don't understand what your are saying 我不明白你在说些什么 you must be ready on time; is that understood? 你必须按时做好准备，听明白了吗？ to make oneself understood 把自己的意思表达清楚 doctors still don’t understand much about the disease 医生对这种疾病还不太了解 do I understand you correctly? 我没有误解你的意思吧？ her motives, as I understand them, are purely financial 据我看，她的动机纯粹是为了钱 I understood her to imply or as implying that there was a very remote chance 我认为她在暗示机会很渺茫 
② (appreciate) 意识到 yìshí dào they don't understand the danger they are in 他们没有意识到自己所处的危险 
③ (know reason for) 认识到…的原因 rènshi dào… de yuányīn no one is answering the phone; I can’t understand it 没人接电话，我不知道是怎么回事 I could never understand why she was fired 我怎么也不明白她为何被解雇 I just can’t understand his taking the money formal 我就是不明白他为什么会偷钱 
④ (empathize with) 体谅 tǐliang I can understand you feeling angry or that you feel angry 你生气我能理解 we understand what you're going through 我们同情你目前的遭遇 
⑤ (believe) 认为 rènwéi (be told) 得知 dézhī I understand you wish to see the manager 听说您想见经理 am I to understand that you refuse? 你是说你拒绝了？ the Prime Minister is understood to have been extremely angry about the report 据说首相对该报道大为恼火 it's generally understood that he will win 人们普遍认为他会获胜 I was given to understand that she had resigned formal 我获悉她已辞职 she has let it be understood that she will support the measure formal 她放出风来说她将支持那项措施 he's dead — so I understand 他死了──我听说了 
⑥ (agree) 默认 mòrèn it must be understood that … …一定不言而喻 I thought it was understood that my expenses would be paid 我原以为对方同意支付我的费用 
⑦ Linguistics (imply) 推断出 tuīduàn chū in the sentence ‘I can’t drive’, the object ‘a car’is understood 在“I can’t drive”一句中，可推测宾语“a car”被省略了 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (comprehend) 懂得 dǒngdé I’m not sure that I understand: go over it again 我不敢说我搞懂了，再来一遍吧 no slip-ups! (do you) understand? 别出差错！（你）听明白了吗？ 
② (sympathize) 体谅 tǐliang I quite understand; it must be very difficult for you 我很理解，这对你来说一定很艰难 
understand 
ˌəndərˈstand

▶verb (past and past participle understood)
1 [with object] perceive the intended meaning of (words, a language, or speaker): he didn't understand a word I said 
he could usually make himself understood 
[with clause] : she understood what he was saying. 
• perceive the significance, explanation, or cause of (something): she didn't really understand the situation 
[with clause] : he couldn't understand why we burst out laughing 
[no object] : you don't understand—she has left me. 
• be sympathetically or knowledgeably aware of the character or nature of: Picasso understood color 
[with clause] : I understand how you feel. 
• interpret or view (something) in a particular way: as the term is usually understood, legislation refers to regulations and directives.
2 [with clause] infer something from information received (often used as a polite formula in conversation): I understand you're at art school 
[with object] : as I understood it, she was flying back to New Zealand tomorrow. 
• [with object] regard (a missing word, phrase, or idea) as present; supply mentally: “present company excepted” is always understood when sweeping generalizations are being made. 
• [with object] assume to be the case; take for granted: he liked to play the field—that was understood. DERIVATIVES understander nounORIGIN Old English understandan (see under-, stand) .
