union 
BrE ˈjuːnjən, ˈjuːnjɪən, AmE ˈjunjən 
noun 
① Uncountable and countable(uniting) 结合 jiéhé (marriage) 结婚 jiéhūn political/economic union 政治/经济联盟 
② Countable(organization) (trade) union 工会 gōnghuì to join a union 加入工会 jiārù gōnghuì a teachers' union 教师工会 jiàoshī gōnghuì 
③ Union CountablePolitics 联邦 liánbāng ; AmE [美国内战期间] 支持联邦的北方各州 zhīchí liánbāng de běifāng gè zhōu 
④ Countable BrE (student) union (organization) 学生会大楼 (building) 学生会 xuéshēnghuì the National Union of Students 全国学生联合会 
union 
ˈyo͞onyən

▶noun
1 the action or fact of joining or being joined, especially in a political context: he was opposed to closer political or economic union with Europe 
a currency union between the two countries. 
• a state of harmony or agreement: they live in perfect union. 
• a marriage: their union had not been blessed with children.
2 an organized association of workers formed to protect and further their rights and interests; a labor union: the National Farmers' Union. 
• a club, society, or association formed by people with a common interest or purpose: members of the Students' Union. 
• British historical a number of parishes consolidated for the purposes of administering the Poor Laws. 
• British an association of independent churches for purposes of cooperation.
3 (also Union) a political unit consisting of a number of states or provinces with the same central government, in particular: 
• the US, especially from its founding by the original thirteen states in 1787–90 to the secession of the Confederate states in 1860–61. 
• (also the Federal Union) the northern states of the US that opposed the seceding Confederate states in the Civil War.
4 US a building at a college or university used by students for recreation and other nonacademic activities.
5 Mathematics the set that comprises all the elements (and no others) contained in any of two or more given sets. 
• the operation of forming a union.
6 a pipe coupling.
7 a part of a flag with an emblem symbolizing national union, typically occupying the upper corner next to the staff.
8 a fabric made of two or more different yarns, typically cotton and linen or silk. ORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French, or from ecclesiastical Latin unio(n-) ‘unity,’ from Latin unus ‘one.’
