unit 
BrE ˈjuːnɪt, AmE ˈjunət 
noun 
① (part of whole) 单元 dānyuán the course book has
15 units 课本有15个单元 the family is the basic unit of society 家庭是社会的基本单位 
② (standard quantity) 单位 dānwèi a unit of length/electricity 长度/电量单位 a monetary unit 货币单位 
③ (group) 小组 xiǎozǔ ; (in army, police) 小队 xiǎoduì a bomb-disposal/research unit 拆弹/研究小组 
④ (building, department) 部门 bùmén (in hospital) 科 kē a manufacturing unit 制造部 the intensive care/maternity unit 重症监护室/妇产科 
⑤ (part of machine) 部件 bùjiàn the lens unit in the camera 照相机的透镜组 
⑥ (piece of furniture) 组合件 zǔhéjiàn a storage/sink unit 储藏架/水槽装置 furniture in units 组装家具 
⑦ Busn (single item) 一件成品 yī jiàn chéngpǐn 
⑧ Mathematics (smallest whole number) 最小整数 zuì xiǎo zhěngshù (numbers from one to nine) 个位数 gèwèishù 
⑨ University (part of course) 教学单元 jiàoxué dānyuán students must take three core units 学生必须选修3个核心单元 
⑩ especially AmE (apartment) 套 tào two-bedroomed units 两居室 
unit 
ˈyo͞onət

▶noun
1 an individual thing or person regarded as single and complete but which can also form an individual component of a larger or more complex whole: the family unit 
large areas of land made up of smaller units 
the sentence as a unit of grammar. 
• a device that has a specified function, especially one forming part of a complex mechanism: the gearbox and transmission unit. 
• a piece of furniture or equipment for fitting with others like it or made of complementary parts: a sink unit. 
• a self-contained section of accommodations in a larger building or group of buildings: one- and two-bedroom units. 
• a part of an institution such as a hospital having a special function: the intensive care unit. 
• a subdivision of a larger military grouping: he returned to Germany with his unit. 
• an amount of educational instruction, typically determined by the number of hours spent in class: students take three compulsory core units. 
• an item manufactured: [as modifier] : unit cost. 
• US a police car: he eased into his unit and flicked the siren on.
2 a quantity chosen as a standard in terms of which other quantities may be expressed: a unit of measurement 
fifty units of electricity.
3 the number one. 
• (units) the digit before the decimal point in decimal notation, representing an integer less than ten. ORIGIN late 16th century (as a mathematical term): from Latin unus, probably suggested by digit .
