up 
BrE ʌp, AmE əp 

A.  adverb 
① (at high position, level) 在上面 zài shàngmian up here/there 在这儿/那儿上面 to be 900 metres up 在上面900米处 four floors up from here 从这里再向上4层楼 the notice is up on the board 通知贴在告示板上 there are clouds up in the sky 天空中有云彩 the curtains are up (installed) 窗帘装上去了 
② (to high position, level) 向上 xiàng shàng to come/go up 上来/上去 to run up to the top of the hill 跑上山顶 to put one's hair up 把头发束在头顶 the river is up 河水涨了 the moon is up 月亮升起来了 
③ (raised, open) 升起 shēngqǐ to have one's hand up 举手 the tent is up 帐篷搭起来了 to have one's umbrella up 撑起雨伞 the blinds are up 窗帘卷起来了 the hood of the car is up 车篷打开了 
④ (greater in intensity) 更大 gèng dà the volume is up all the way 音量开到最大 the wind is up 起风了 
⑤ (higher in amount, price) 更高 gèng gāo sales are up by 10% 销售量增加了10% carrots are up again 胡萝卜又涨价了 
⑥ (upstairs) 在楼上 zài lóushang (going upstairs) 向楼上 xiàng lóushang I'll be up in a minute 我一会儿就上楼 can you come up? 你能到楼上来吗？ 
⑦ (out of bed) 不在睡觉 bùzài shuìjiào to be up early/late 早起/熬夜 to be up all night 一夜没睡 to be up and about (after illness) 起床走动 to be up and about very early (after sleep) 很早就起床 
⑧ (upstream) 向上游 xiàng shàng yóu to row up to the head of the river 向河流源头划去 
⑨ (facing upwards) 朝上 cháo shàng ‘this side up’ (on box) “此面朝上” to lay [something] face up 将某物面朝上放置 to lie face up 仰面躺着 
⑩ (in time, scale, rank) 以上 yǐshàng children from the age of
10 up 10岁以上的孩子 T-shirts from £5 up 售价在5英镑以上的T恤衫 everyone from the cleaning staff up 自清洁工以上的每个人 from the sixteenth century up to the present day 从16世纪至今 
⑪ (rising) 升起 shēngqǐ his colour was up 他羞红了脸 her temper is up 她生气了 his blood was up 他血往上涌 
⑫ (at high status) 居于高位 jū yú gāowèi (to high status) 向高位 xiàng gāowèi to be up (there) with or among the best 跻身最佳之列 to be up (there) with or among the leaders 身处领导者之列 to be up among the leading contenders for the title 是冠军的主要争夺者之一 
⑬ (to the far end) 向那头 xiàng nàtou ; (at the far end) 在那头 zài nàtou my office is halfway up 我的办公室在前面中间的地方 
⑭ (in north) 在北方 zài běifāng (to north) 向北方 xiàng běifāng he's up in Leeds 他在北方的利兹 to fly up to Glasgow 向北飞往格拉斯哥 to move up to Edinburgh 北迁到爱丁堡 to move/live up north colloquial 搬到北方/在北方居住 
⑮ (in capital, major city) 在大都市 zài dàdūshì (to capital, major city) 向大都市 xiàng dàdūshì up in London 在伦敦 to go up to London 去伦敦 to be up from the country for the weekend 从乡下到城里度周末 
⑯ BrE (at university) 上大学 shàng dàxué [尤指上牛津或剑桥]he's up at Oxford 他在牛津上大学 
⑰ colloquial (wrong) 出错 chūcuò what's up? 出什么事啦？ what's up with your arm? 你胳膊怎么了？ there's something up with the brakes 刹车出问题了 
⑱ especially AmE colloquial (in greeting) hey, what's up? 嗨，有啥事吗？ hāi ， yǒu shá shì ma ？ 
⑲ colloquial (informed) to be (well) up on [something] （非常）了解某事物 (fēicháng)liǎojiě mǒu shìwù 
⑳ (on trial) to be up for murder/fraud 因涉嫌谋杀/诈骗而被审讯 yīn shèxián móushā/zhàpiàn ér bèi shěnxùn to be up before the judge (for [something]) （因某事）而接受法官审理 (yīn mǒu shì)ér jiēshòu fǎguān shěnlǐ ㉑ (in profit) 赢利 yínglì to be £100 up 获利100英镑 ㉒ Sport (ahead) 领先 lǐngxiān to be two points up on [somebody] 领先某人两分 (to get) one up (on [somebody]) figurative colloquial 超过（某人） ㉓ colloquial (expressing support) up with [somebody]/[something]!; 支持某人/某事！ zhīchí mǒu rén/mǒu shì ！ ㉔ BrE colloquial (ready) 准备好 zhǔnbèi hǎo tea's up! 茶沏好了！ 
B.  preposition 
① (at higher position) 在…上面 zài… shàngmian to be up a ladder 在梯子上面 to be stuck up a tree 被困在树上 
② (to higher position) 向…上面 xiàng… shàngmian to come/go up the stairs 上楼 come/go up the mountain 上山 the road up the mountain 通往山上的路 
③ (along) 沿着 yánzhe to come/go up the street 沿街道过来/过去 to live up the road 住在路的那头 to have buttons up the front (in vertical row) 前襟有一排扣子 
④ (in) 在…里面 zài… lǐmian (into) 到…里面 dào… lǐmian to get water up one's nose 让水灌进鼻子 to put [something] up one's sleeve 把某物放进袖子里 up yours! vulg 去你妈的！ 
⑤ (upstream) 向…上游 xiàng… shàngyóu a cruise up the Rhine 向莱茵河上游方向的乘船游览 
⑥ BrE colloquial (at) 在…处 zài… chù (to) 到…处 dào… chù he's up the pub 他在酒吧 she's gone up town 她到城里去了 
C.  adjective 
① predicative (finished) 完了的 wánle de time's up! 时间到！ his leave is almost up 他休假快结束了 the month was finally up 一个月的时间终于过去了 to be all up (with [somebody]) colloquial （某人）完蛋了 colloquial it's all up with this government colloquial 这个政府完蛋了 colloquial 
② attributive (going upward) 向上的 xiàng shàng de ‹escalator, stroke›
③ predicative colloquial (cheerful) 快乐的 kuàilè de he's up at the moment 他这会儿很高兴 everyone's mood is up 大家情绪高涨 
④ attributive Railways 上行的 shàngxíng de the up train/line/platform 上行列车/线/站台 
⑤ predicative BrE (under repair) 在维修的 zài wéixiū de the road is up 道路正在整修 ‘road up’ “路面整修” 
⑥ predicative Computing 运行正常的 yùnxíng zhèngcháng de is the system up today? 今天系统能运行了吗？ 
D.  nouncolloquial 
① ups plus plural verb 走运 zǒuyùn you can't have ups all the time 你不可能总是走运 ups and downs 兴衰 xīngshuāi the ups and downs of being thirty 人到30岁的起起落落 
② on the up (increasing) 在增长 zài zēngzhǎng (improving) 在改善 zài gǎishàn confidence is on the up (rising) 信心正在提升 xìnxīn zhèngzài tíshēng on the up and up (prospering) 日益兴旺 rìyì xīngwàng (honest) 诚实 chéngshí the offer seems to be on the up and up 出价似乎很有诚意 
E.  up above adverb phrase,preposition phrase 
① (in higher position) 在高处 zài gāochù the clouds up above 天上的云 to circle up above the lake 在湖面上盘旋 
② (to higher position) 到高处 dào gāochù to climb up above to get a better view 爬到高处以便看得更清楚 she stretched her arms up above her head 她双臂举过头顶 
③ Religion 在天堂 zài tiāntáng 
F.  up against preposition phrase 
① literal (near) 靠近 kàojìn (touching) 接触 jiēchù he left his bike up against the wall 他把自行车倚在墙上 to press up against [something] «crowd, herd» 推挤着某物 
② figurative (confronting) 遭遇 zāoyù to be up against strong opposition 遇到强劲对手 to be up against it 遇到困难 
G.  up and down adverb phrase,preposition phrase 
① (upwards and downwards) 上上下下 shàngshàngxiàxià to jump up and down with excitement 兴奋得跳上跳下 to bob up and down on the water «boat» 在水面颠簸 
② (to and fro) 来来回回 láiláihuíhuí to walk/pace up and down 来回走/踱步 to walk up and down the garden 在花园里走来走去 
③ (throughout) 遍及 biànjí to travel up and down the country 游遍全国各地 
④ (in and out of bed) 一会儿起来一会儿睡下 yīhuìr qǐlai yīhuìr shuìxia 
⑤ (good and bad) «relationship» 时好时坏 shí hǎo shí huài to be (a bit) up and down «person» (depressed) 情绪（有点儿）起伏不定 (ill) 病情（有点儿）反复 
H.  up and running adjective phrase «company» 运行 yùnxíng ; «project» 进行 jìnxíng to get the system up and running 让系统运行起来 
I.  up for preposition phrase 
① (available for) 可供应 kě gōngyìng to be up for sale 可供销售 the subject up for discussion/consideration is … 可讨论/考虑的话题是… 
② (being considered for) 被考虑 bèi kǎolǜ to be up for election «candidate» 被提名参加选举 to be up for promotion «worker» 被考虑提拔 
③ (due for) 到期 dàoqī to be up for renewal in June «contract, visa» 将在6月份到期续签 
④ colloquial (willing to join) 愿意参加 yuànyì cānjiā I'm going out tonight: are you up for it? 我今天晚上外出，你想去吗？ 
J.  up to preposition phrase 
① (as high as, as far as, until) 直到 zhídào it has grown all the way up to here 它一直长到这里 I was up to my knees in water 我站在齐膝深的水里 to read up to page
10 读到第10页 where are we up to? 我们到哪儿了？ up to 1994/now 直到1994年/现在 
② (as much, many as) 多达 duō dá temperatures of up to 35°C 高达35摄氏度的气温 to pay up to $500 最多支付500美元 I can take up to four people in my car 我的车最多可以载4个人 
③ with negative (as good as) 达到 dádào her latest book isn’t up to her usual standard 她的新书没有达到她一向以来的水准 not to be up to much BrE colloquial 不怎么样 the play wasn't up to much 这部戏很一般 
④ (equal to) 胜任 shèngrèn he's not up to the job 他不胜任这项工作 I'm not up to writing a book 我没有能力写书 to be up for the challenge 准备好迎接挑战 
⑤ colloquial (indicating responsibility) 由…决定 yóu… juédìng It's up to you! 这由你决定！ it’s not up to you to tell me … 轮不到你来告诉我… 
⑥ colloquial (doing) 正在干 zhèngzài gàn what are they up to? 他们在干什么？ to be up to something 在干着某种勾当 
K.  transitive verb (present participle etc. -pp-) 提高 tígāo ‹price, rates›to up one's offer by £1,000 将出价提高1,000英镑 capacity will be upped by 70% 产能将提高70% 
L.  intransitive verb (present participle etc. -pp-) colloquial to up and do [something] 突然做某事 tūrán zuò mǒu shì to up and marry someone else 突然和另外一个人结婚 he upped and left her 他突然起身离开了她 
up 
▶adverb See upward. 
▶adjective
1 she was up early today: awake, wide awake, out of bed, about, conscious, alert, functioning.
2 he was up for some fun: ready, eager, willing, open, prepared.
3 I'm not up on the latest news: informed, up-to-date, versed, cognizant, familiar, briefed, in touch, plugged in, savvy.
