use 
A.  /BrE juːs, AmE jus
noun 
① Countable and uncountable(act of utilizing) 使用 shǐyòng (state of being utilized) 被使用 bèi shǐyòng the use of force 武力的使用 a room for use as a library 用作资料室的房间 textbooks for use in universities 大学用的课本 the bar is for the use of members only 这个酒吧仅向会员开放 for external use only Pharmacology 限外敷 to make use of the most modern technologies 利用最现代的技术 we could make better use of our resources 我们可以更有效地利用我们的资源 to get good or a lot of use out of [something] 大量使用某物 to put [something] to good use 有效利用某物 the car gets regular use 这辆车经常开 the chapel was built in the 12th century and is still in use today 这座小教堂建于12世纪，今天仍在使用 to come into/go out of use 开始/停止使用 
② Countable and uncountable(purpose of utilizing) 用途 yòngtú (way of utilizing) 用法 yòngfǎ the many uses of a hairpin 发夹的多种用途 have you any use for this jug? 这个罐子你有什么用吗？ maybe we can find a use for him in the kitchen 也许我们能在厨房给他找点事儿干 to have no use for [somebody]/[something] (not need) 不需要某人/某事物 (dislike) 不喜欢某人/某事物 to have one's/its uses colloquial 有自己的用处/有其用场 
③ Uncountable(right to avail oneself of sth.) 使用权 shǐyòngquán I have the use of the car this week 这辆车本周归我用 
④ Uncountable(mental or physical ability) 功能 gōngnéng to lose/regain the use of one's arms/legs 失去/恢复手臂/双腿的功能 
⑤ Uncountable(usefulness) 有用 yǒuyòng (value) 价值 jiàzhí (advantage) 益处 yìchu to be of use (to [somebody]); （对某人）有用 can I be of any use? 我能帮什么忙吗？ to be (of) no use (to [somebody]) （对某人）没用 to be no use at [something]/doing [something] colloquial 不擅长某事/做某事 what's the use of crying? 哭有什么用？ it's or there's no use complaining 抱怨是没用的 
⑥ Uncountable(of drug) 吸毒 xīdú widespread drug use 普遍的吸毒行为 
B.  /BrE juːz, AmE juz
transitive verb 
① (employ, say or write) 使用 shǐyòng ‹word, language›; pejorative (exploit) 利用 lìyòng ‹person›can I use your phone? 我能用一下你的电话吗？ how often do you use the bus? 你多长时间坐一次公交车？ use your initiative! 自己想办法！ he's only using it as an excuse 他只是拿它当托词 police used tear gas to disperse the crowds 警察动用了催泪瓦斯驱散人群 the blue files are used for storing old invoices 蓝色卷宗是用来存放旧发票的 use your head or BrE loaf! 你动动脑子！ I have some information you may be able to use 我有一些可能对你有用的信息 he's just using you 他只是在利用你 I felt used 我感到被利用了 
② (consume) 消耗 xiāohào this type of heater uses a lot of electricity 这种取暖器耗电量很大 he's used all the water 他把水全用完了 
③ (call oneself by) 自称 zìchēng she uses her maiden name 她用自己的娘家姓 
④ (desire, need) he could use a wash colloquial 他很想洗一洗 tā hěn xiǎng xǐ yī xǐ I could use a drink! 我真想喝上一杯！ 
⑤ (take habitually) 吸食 xīshí ‹drugs›
⑥ archaic (treat) 对待 duìdài to use [somebody] well/ill 善待/恶劣对待某人 PHRASAL VERB use up transitive verb[use something up], [use up something] 用尽 yòngjìn the money was soon used up 钱很快就用光了 
use 
▶verb
1 
yo͞oz 
[with object] take, hold, or deploy (something) as a means of accomplishing a purpose or achieving a result; employ: she used her key to open the front door 
the poem uses simple language. 
• take or consume (an amount) from a limited supply of something: we have used all the available funds. 
• exploit (a person or situation) for one's own advantage: I couldn't help feeling that she was using me. 
• treat (someone) in a particular way: use your troops well and they will not let you down. 
• apply (a name or title) to oneself: she still used her maiden name professionally. 
• (one could use) informal one would like or benefit from: I could use another cup of coffee. 
• informal take (an illegal drug): they were using heroin daily 
[no object] : had she been using again?
2 
yo͞ost 
[in past] (used to) describing an action or state of affairs that was done repeatedly or existed for a period in the past: this road used to be a dirt track 
I used to give him lifts home.
3 
yo͞ost 
(be/get used to) be or become familiar with someone or something through experience: she was used to getting what she wanted 
he's weird, but you just have to get used to him. 
▶noun 
yo͞os 
the action of using something or the state of being used for some purpose: a member of staff is present when the pool is in use 
theater owners were charging too much for the use of their venues. 
• the ability or power to exercise or manipulate something, especially one's mind or body: the horse lost the use of his hind legs. 
• a purpose for or way in which something can be used: the herb has various culinary uses. 
• the value or advantage of something: it was no use trying to persuade her 
what's the use of crying? 
• Law, historical the benefit or profit of lands, especially lands that are in the possession of another who holds them solely for the beneficiary. 
• the characteristic ritual and liturgy of a church or diocese. 
• the action of taking or habitual consumption of a drug. 
PHRASES
have its (or one's) uses informal be useful on certain occasions or in certain respects. have no use for be unable to find a purpose for; have no need for: he had no use for a single glove. 
• informal dislike or be impatient with. make use of use for a purpose. 
• benefit from: they were educated enough to make use of further training. use and wont formal established custom. use someone's name quote someone as an authority or reference.PHRASAL VERBS use something up consume or expend the whole of something: the money was soon used up. 
• find a purpose for something that is left over: I might use up all my odd scraps of wool to make a scarf. 
• (be used up) informal (of a person) be worn out, especially with overwork: she was tired and used up.ORIGIN Middle English: the noun from Old French us, from Latin usus, from uti ‘to use’; the verb from Old French user, based on Latin uti . usage:
1 The construction used to is standard, but difficulties arise with the formation of negatives and questions. Traditionally, used to behaves as a modal verb, so that questions and negatives are formed without the auxiliary verb do, as in it used not to be like that and used she to come here? In modern English, this question form is now regarded as very formal or awkwardly old-fashioned, and the use with do is broadly accepted as standard, as in did she use to come here? Negative constructions with do, on the other hand (as in it didn't use to be like that), although common, are informal and are not generally accepted.
2 There is sometimes confusion over whether to use the form used to or use to, which has arisen largely because the pronunciation is the same in both cases. Except in negatives and questions, the correct form is used to: we used to go to the movies all the time (not we use to go to the movies). However, in negatives and questions using the auxiliary verb do, the correct form is use to, because the form of the verb required is the infinitive: I didn't use to like mushrooms (not I didn't used to like mushrooms). See also usage at utilize .
