value 
BrE ˈvaljuː, AmE ˈvælju 

A.  noun 
① Countable and uncountable(monetary worth) 价值 jiàzhí a bracelet of great/little value 很值钱/不值钱的手镯 to go up or rise or increase in value 增值 to go down or fall or decrease in value 贬值 a prize to the value of £100 价值为100英镑的奖品 sports cars tend to hold their value well 跑车往往很保值 to put or place a value on [something] literal 给某物估价 figurative 重视某事物 zhòngshì mǒu shìwù 
② Uncountableespecially BrE (worth relative to cost) 值得 zhídé the bike is good value at $100 花100美元买这辆自行车很值 to be bad or poor value 不合算 large sizes give the best value for money 大尺寸的最划算 
③ Uncountable(importance) 重要 zhòngyào (usefulness) 有用 yǒuyòng the value of regular exercise 经常锻炼的好处 your experience is of value to others 你的经验对其他人有帮助 the books are of no educational value 这些书没有教育意义 we set great value on his friendship 我们珍视他的友谊 to be good value (important) 很重要 (useful) 很有用 (enjoyable) 很令人愉快 
④ CountableMathematics 值 zhí let y have the value 33 设y的值为33 
B.  values noun plural 价值观 jiàzhíguān moral/family values 道德观/家庭价值观 
C.  transitive verb 
① (prize) 重视 zhòngshì I value my privacy 我看重自己的隐私 I value him as a good friend 我把他视为好朋友 
② (assess worth of) 给…估价 gěi… gūjià the property has been valued at over $200,000 这处房产估价为20多万美元 
value 
ˈvalyo͞o

▶noun
1 the regard that something is held to deserve; the importance, worth, or usefulness of something: your support is of great value. 
• the material or monetary worth of something: prints seldom rise in value 
equipment is included up to a total value of $500. 
• the worth of something compared to the price paid or asked for it: at $12.50 the book is a good value.
2 (values) a person's principles or standards of behavior; one's judgment of what is important in life: they internalize their parents' rules and values.
3 the numerical amount denoted by an algebraic term; a magnitude, quantity, or number: the mean value of x 
an accurate value for the mass of Venus.
4 Music the relative duration of the sound signified by a note.
5 Linguistics the meaning of a word or other linguistic unit. 
• the quality or tone of a spoken sound; the sound represented by a letter.
6 Art the relative degree of lightness or darkness of a particular color: the artist has used adjacent color values as the landscape recedes. 
▶verb (values, valuing, valued) [with object]
1 estimate the monetary worth of (something): his estate was valued at $45,000.
2 consider (someone or something) to be important or beneficial; have a high opinion of: she had come to value her privacy and independence. ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French, feminine past participle of valoir ‘be worth,’ from Latin valere .
