variety 
BrE vəˈrʌɪəti, AmE vəˈraɪədi 
noun 
① Uncountable(diversity) 多样化 duōyànghuà a lack of variety in style 风格变化的缺乏 to lack variety «job, life» 缺乏变化 variety is the spice of life proverb 变化是生活的调味剂 
② Countable(range) 一系列种类 yīxìliè zhǒnglèi a wide or great variety 很多种类 a variety of 各种 ‹activities, styles›to come in a variety of sizes 有各种尺码 for a variety of reasons 因为种种原因 
③ Countable(type) 种类 zhǒnglèi lighters of the refillable/disposable variety 可重注燃气打火机/一次性打火机 
④ CountableBiology 品种 pǐnzhǒng a new plant variety 新的植物品种 
⑤ Uncountable and countableTheatre, Television variety (show) 综艺节目 zōngyì jiémù a variety act 综艺表演 zōngyì biǎoyǎn 
variety 
vəˈrīədē

▶noun (plural varieties)
1 the quality or state of being different or diverse; the absence of uniformity, sameness, or monotony: it's the variety that makes my job so enjoyable. 
• (a variety of) a number or range of things of the same general class that are different or distinct in character or quality: the center offers a variety of leisure activities. 
• a thing that differs in some way from others of the same general class or sort; a type: fifty varieties of fresh and frozen pasta. 
• a form of television or theater entertainment consisting of a series of different types of acts, such as singing, dancing, and comedy: in 1937 she did another season of variety 
[as modifier] : a variety show.
2 Biology a taxonomic category that ranks below subspecies (where present) or species, its members differing from others of the same subspecies or species in minor but permanent or heritable characteristics. Varieties are more often recognized in botany, in which they are designated in the style Apium graveolens var. dulce. Compare with form ( sense
3 of the noun) and subspecies. 
• a cultivated form of a plant. See cultivar. 
• a plant or animal that varies in some trivial respect from its immediate parent or type. 
PHRASES
variety is the spice of life proverb new and exciting experiences make life more interesting.ORIGIN late 15th century: from French variété or Latin varietas, from varius (see various) .
