very 
BrE ˈvɛri, AmE ˈvɛri 

A.  adverb 
① (extremely) 很 hěn very hot/small 很热/很小 I'm very sorry 我非常抱歉 how very sad! 多么令人悲哀啊！ not very (not particularly) 不太 (not at all) 一点也不 that isn't very likely 那不太可能 I'm not very impressed 我觉得并不怎么样 very good or well (extremely good or well) 非常好 dated or formal (expressing agreement) 好吧 hǎo ba very good, sir! 好的，先生！ I can't very well refuse the invitation to her wedding 我无法拒绝她婚礼的邀请 she couldn't very well do that, knowing it was illegal 她知道那是非法的，所以没有理由那样 
② (absolutely) 极端地 jíduān de the very best/worst thing 最最好/糟糕的事 at the very earliest/latest 最早/最迟 at the very most/least 顶多/至少 the very first/last 第一个/最后一个 it was the very next day 就是第二天 I used the very same words 我以前就是这么说的 her very own car 完全属于她自己的汽车 
B.  adjectiveattributive 
① (actual, precise) 正是的 zhèng shì de those were her very words 那就是她的原话 at that very moment 正在那时 
② (ideal) 最合适的 zuì héshì de the very person/thing I need 我正需要的人/东西 
③ (ultimate) 极端的 jíduān de from the very beginning 从一开始 at the very beginning/end 在最初/最后 to the very end 到最后 at the very front/back 在最前面/后面 the very top of the hill/profession 山巅/职业的巅峰 
④ (mere) 仅仅的 jǐnjǐn de the very thought of drink made him feel sick 他一想到酒就感到恶心 the very word conjures up exotic visions 单是这个字就可让人想到异国情调 the very idea (of it)! especially BrE humorous 想想就不可能！ 
C.  very much adverb phrase,pronoun phrase 
① (greatly) 非常 fēicháng very much better 好得多 I like it very much 我非常喜欢它 he seemed very much the odd one out 他似乎与别人非常格格不入 it's very much a question of … 这完全是…的问题 very much a city dweller 地地道道的城市居民 very much so 确实如此 
② (a large amount) 很多 hěn duō there's not very much I can do about it 对此我没有多少可做的 I didn't eat very much 我吃的不太多 
very 
▶adverb that's very kind of you: extremely, exceedingly, exceptionally, extraordinarily, tremendously, immensely, hugely, intensely, acutely, abundantly, singularly, uncommonly, decidedly, particularly, supremely, highly, remarkably, really, truly, mightily, ever so; informal terrifically, awfully, fearfully, terribly, devilishly, majorly, seriously, mega, ultra, damn, damned; dead, real, way, mighty, awful, darned; archaic exceeding. ANTONYMS slightly.
▶adjective
1 those were his very words: exact, actual, precise.
2 the very thought of food made her feel ill: mere, simple, pure; sheer.REFLECTIONS Michael Dirdavery Early on we are taught to be leery of very and similar intensives (exceptionally, especially). Indeed, if writers had to do without one of the eight parts of speech, the adverbs would probably be least missed. Yet very is among the few words that gains in effectiveness when repeated. There was definitely something moving around the darkened room. Frightened, Mildred turned the doorknob very, very quietly. The doubling of very slows the sentence down, and conveys a more palpable sense of Mildred's trepidation. Nevertheless, be very, very cautious about using this common adverb, and do so only after thinking twice.Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
