view 
BrE vjuː, AmE vju 

A.  noun 
① Countable(opinion) 观点 guāndiǎn to have or hold strong political views 持强硬的政治观点 the official view 官方态度 in my view it was a waste of time 依我看，那是浪费时间 you know my views on divorce 你知道我对离婚的看法 
② Countable(way of thinking) 思维方式 sīwéi fāngshì (way of understanding) 理解方式 lǐjiě fāngshì he has an optimistic view of life 他乐观地看待人生 we take the view that … 我们认为… to take the long view 从长远考虑 in the long view 从长远来看 
③ Countable and uncountable(field of vision) 视野 shìyě to block [somebody's] view 挡住某人的视线 we had a good view of the stage from our seats 从我们的座位看舞台很清楚 the bedroom has a side view of the lake 从卧室能看到湖的一侧 there was nobody in or within view 一个人也看不见 what do you have in view? figurative (as aim) 你有什么打算？ (in mind) 你在想什么？ the lake was within view of the house 从房子能看到湖 in full view 完全看得见的 he was shot in full view of a large crowd 他在众目睽睽之下被人枪杀了 to come into/disappear from view 进入视野/从视野中消失 the lake soon came into view 那湖很快便映入眼帘 to be lost to or from view (be no longer seen) 从视野中消失 (become forgotten) 被忘记 on view 在容易看见的地方 it is advisable not to leave handbags on view 明智的做法是不把手提包放在显眼的地方 
④ Countable(vista) 景色 jǐngsè a room with a view (of the lake) 看得见（那片湖的）风景的房间 a sea/mountain view 海景/山景 the front view of the museum is very imposing 博物馆的正面看上去非常壮观 
⑤ Countable(photograph) 风景照 fēngjǐngzhào (picture) 风景画 fēngjǐnghuà ten views of London 伦敦十景 a book with views of Paris 巴黎风光画册 
⑥ Countable and uncountable(chance to see exhibition, film, TV programme) 观看 guānkàn 
⑦ Countable and uncountable(inspection before purchase) 察看 chákàn 
⑧ Countable and uncountable(presentation of product) 展示 zhǎnshì on view 在展出 
B.  in view of preposition phrase formal 鉴于 jiànyú in view of the weather, the event will now be held indoors 由于天气的缘故，这项赛事现在要在室内进行 
C.  with a view to preposition phrase (with the intention of) 有…的打算 yǒu… de dǎsuàn (with the hope of) 有…的指望 yǒu… de zhǐwang he’s painting the house with a view to selling it 他在粉刷房子，想把它卖掉 they are taking disciplinary action against him, with a view to him being dismissed 他们正要给他纪律处分，目的是要开除他 
D.  transitive verb 
① (regard) 看待 kàndài how do you view the current situation? 你如何看待当前的局势？ she viewed him as an enemy 她把他视为敌人 to view the future with optimism 乐观地看待未来 
② (see) 看 kàn this waterfall is best viewed from the side 这处瀑布从侧面看效果最佳 
③ formal (watch) 观看 guānkàn ‹DVD, film›
④ (examine) 审查 shěnchá ‹exhibition, document, record›people came from all over the world to view her work 人们从世界各地涌来欣赏她的作品 
⑤ (inspect before buying) 察看 chákàn ‹property, item›
E.  intransitive verb 观看 guānkàn 
view 
vyo͞o

▶noun
1 the ability to see something or to be seen from a particular place: the end of the tunnel came into view 
they stood on the bar to get a better view. 
• a sight or prospect, typically of attractive natural scenery, that can be taken in by the eye from a particular place: a fine view of the castle. 
• a work of art depicting an attractive view. 
• the visual appearance or an image of something when looked at in a particular way: an aerial view of the military earthworks. 
• an inspection of things for sale by prospective purchasers, especially of works of art at an exhibition. 
• Law (in court proceedings) a formal inspection by the judge and jury of the scene of a crime or property mentioned in evidence.
2 a particular way of considering or regarding something; an attitude or opinion: strong political views. 
▶verb
1 [with object] look at or inspect (something): the public can view the famous hall with its unique staircase. 
• watch (something) on television. 
• Hunting see (a fox) break cover.
2 [with object] regard in a particular light or with a particular attitude: farmers are viewing the rise in rabbit numbers with concern. 
PHRASES
in full view clearly visible. in view visible to someone: the youth was keeping him in view. 
• as one's aim or objective: his arrest is the principal object I have in view. 
• in one's mind when forming a judgment: it is important to have in view the position reached at the beginning of the 1970s. in view of because or as a result of. on view (especially of a work of art) being shown or exhibited to the public. with a view to with the hope, aim, or intention of.ORIGIN Middle English: from Anglo-Norman French vieue, feminine past participle of veoir ‘see,’ from Latin videre. The verb dates from the early 16th century.
