voice 
BrE vɔɪs, AmE vɔɪs 

A.  noun 
① Countable and uncountable(speaking sound) 说话声 shuōhuà shēng (singing sound) 歌唱声 gēchàng shēng to speak in a loud/low voice 大声/低声说话 to raise one's voice (to [somebody]) （对某人）提高嗓门 to lower one's voice 压低嗓门 keep your voice down! 小声点！ don’t use that tone of voice with me! 别用那种腔调和我说话！ his voice is breaking 他正在变声 at the top of one's voice 用最大声音 to scream at the top of one's voice 声嘶力竭地尖叫 to like the sound of one's own voice 喜欢夸夸其谈 to give voice to [something] 表露某心声 with one voice (all together) 异口同声地 (in agreement) 众口一词地 to have a good voice 有一副好嗓子 to be in good voice 嗓音好 
② Countable(singer) 声部 shēngbù 
③ Uncountable(ability to emit sound) 发声能力 fāshēng nénglì to lose one's voice (through illness) 倒嗓子 (through emotion) 说不出话 she is suffering from flu and has lost her voice 她得了流感，嗓子哑了 to find one's voice 能表达意见 
④ Countable(say) 发言权 fāyánquán to have a voice (in [something]/doing [something]) （对某事/做某事）有发言权 to give [somebody] a voice 给某人发言权 
⑤ Countable(opinion) 意见 yìjiàn voices have been raised against the reform 有些人对改革提出了反对意见 a dissenting voice 不同意见 the voice of reason/conscience 理性/良心的声音 the voice of the people 人民的呼声 to make one's voice heard 发表意见 
⑥ Countable(mouthpiece) 代言人 dàiyánrén the paper was the voice of middle-class conservatism 该报纸代表了中产阶级保守主义的声音 
⑦ Countable(style) 风格 fēnggé the poet has her own very distinct voice 这位诗人有她独具特色的风格 
⑧ Countable and uncountable(narrator) 叙述者 xùshùzhě 
⑨ Countable and uncountableLinguistics 语态 yǔtài the active/passive voice 主动/被动语态 
B.  transitive verb 
① (express) 表达 biǎodá ‹opinion, dissatisfaction, doubt›
② Phonet 使发浊音 shǐ fā zhuóyīn 
voice 
vois

▶noun
1 the sound produced in a person's larynx and uttered through the mouth, as speech or song: Meg raised her voice 
a worried tone of voice. 
• an agency by which a particular point of view is expressed or represented: once the proud voice of middle-class conservatism, the paper had fallen on hard times. 
• [in singular] the right to express an opinion: the new electoral system gives minority parties a voice. 
• a particular opinion or attitude expressed: a dissenting voice. 
• the ability to speak or sing: she'd lost her voice. 
• (usually voices) the supposed utterance of a guiding spirit, typically giving instructions or advice. 
• the distinctive tone or style of a literary work or author: she had strained and falsified her literary voice.
2 Music the range of pitch or type of tone with which a person sings, such as soprano or tenor. 
• a vocal part in a composition. 
• a constituent part in a fugue. 
• each of the notes or sounds able to be produced simultaneously by a musical instrument (especially an electronic one) or a computer. 
• (in an electronic musical instrument) each of a number of preset or programmable tones.
3 Phonetics sound uttered with resonance of the vocal cords (used in the pronunciation of vowels and certain consonants).
4 Grammar a form or set of forms of a verb showing the relation of the subject to the action: the passive voice. 
▶verb [with object]
1 express (something) in words: get teachers to voice their opinions on important subjects.
2 (usually as adjective voiced) Phonetics utter (a speech sound) with resonance of the vocal cords (e.g., b, d, g, v, z).
3 Music regulate the tone quality of (organ pipes). 
PHRASES
give voice to allow (a particular emotion, opinion, or point of view) to be expressed. 
• allow (a person or group) to express their emotions, opinion, or point of view. in voice in proper vocal condition for singing or speaking: the soprano is in marvelous voice. with one voice in complete agreement; unanimously.DERIVATIVES voicer nounORIGIN Middle English: from Old French vois, from Latin vox, voc- .
