walk 
BrE wɔːk, AmE wɔk 

A.  intransitive verb 
① (move on foot) 走 zǒu (travel on foot) 步行 bùxíng to walk home 走回家 it's not very far: let's walk 那里不太远，我们走着去吧 don’t walk on the grass 不要践踏草地 ‘walk’/‘don't walk’ AmE (sign at traffic lights) “通行”/“止步” to walk before one can run figurative 先学会走再学跑 to run before one can walk figurative 还不会走就想跑 to walk in one's sleep 梦游 to walk under a bus 被公交车撞死 
② (go for stroll) 散步 sànbù ; especially BrE (hike) 远足 yuǎnzú to go out walking 出去散步 to walk in the mountains/countryside 在山里/乡间远足 
③ (move at slowest pace) «horse» 慢步走 màn bù zǒu 
④ colloquial humorous (disappear) «possession» 不翼而飞 bù yì ér fēi 
⑤ AmE colloquial (be released) (from suspicion) 摆脱嫌疑 bǎituō xiányí (from a charge) 解除指控 jiěchú zhǐkòng 
⑥ colloquial (leave) «employee» 撂挑子 liào tiāozi 
⑦ literary (appear) «ghost, phantom» 出现 chūxiàn 
⑧ (in cricket) «batsman» 主动离场 zhǔdòng líchǎng 
⑨ (in baseball) «batter» 自由上垒 zìyóu shànglěi 
B.  transitive verb 
① (go over on foot) 在…上走 zài… shang zǒu ‹road›to walk the streets «tourist» 走街串巷 figurative «prostitute» 在街上拉客 zài jiē shang lākè to walk it colloquial (go on foot) 走到那儿去 figurative (succeed easily) 轻易取胜 qīngyì qǔshèng to walk the walk colloquial 说到做到 
② especially BrE (hike over) 在…远足 zài… yuǎnzú ‹footpath, moors›
③ (accompany) 陪…走 péi… zǒu to walk [somebody] home 陪某人走回家 to walk [somebody] to their hotel/the station; 陪某人走到酒店/车站 to walk [somebody] around [something]; «guide» 带某人徒步游览某处 to walk [somebody] off their feet colloquial 让某人走断腿 
④ (cause to go on foot) 使行走 shǐ xíngzǒu the guards walked him back to his cell 看守们押着他走回牢房 
⑤ (take out for exercise) 遛 liù ‹dog›
⑥ (patrol) 在…巡逻 zài… xúnluó ‹ramparts, area›to walk the beat «police officer» 在辖区执勤巡逻 
⑦ literary (appear in) «ghost» 出没于 chūmò yú ‹tower, corridors›
⑧ (move from side to side) 挪动 nuódòng ‹piece of furniture, ladder›
⑨ (wheel) 推着…走 tuīzhe… zǒu ‹bicycle›
⑩ (ride slowly) 骑着…溜达 qízhe… liūdá ‹horse›
C.  noun 
① (journey on foot) 步行 bùxíng a walk in the woods/moonlight 林中/月下漫步 the walk home 步行回家 to take the dog for a walk 去遛狗 to have or take or go for a walk 去散步 a ten-minute walk 十分钟的步行 take a walk! especially AmE colloquial 走开！ to win in a walk especially AmE colloquial (easily) 轻易获胜 
② (hike) 远足 yuǎnzú to go for a walk 去远足 
③ (route) 散步路线 sànbù lùxiàn 
④ (organized event) 步行出游 bùxíng chūyóu 
⑤ (gait) 步态 bùtài she has a very strange walk 她走路的样子很奇怪 
⑥ (pace) (of person) 步伐 bùfá (of animal) [尤指马的] 慢步走 màn bù zǒu a brisk walk 轻快的步伐 
⑦ (path) 小径 xiǎojìng shady walks through the trees 林荫小路 
⑧ Sport (competitive race) 竞走 jìngzǒu PHRASAL VERBS walk around 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (move around) 走来走去 zǒu lái zǒu qù to walk around in circles 兜圈子 
② (wander around) 闲逛 xiánguàng 
③ (go around perimeter) 绕道走 ràodào zǒu 
B.  transitive verb[walk around something] 
① (go here and there in) 在…闲逛 zài… xiánguàng ‹city, streets›
② (visit all of) 走遍 zǒubiàn ‹museum›
③ (go around outside of) 绕着…的外面走 ràozhe… de wàimian zǒu ‹stadium, ruins›walk away intransitive verb 
① (go away) 走开 zǒukāi 
② (avoid involvement) 一走了之 yī zǒu liǎo zhī to walk away from; 甩开 ‹responsibility, problem›to walk away from a fight 逃避斗争 just walk away: it's nothing to do with you 待一边儿去，这跟你没有关系 
③ (survive unscathed) to walk away from an accident; 从事故中平安脱身 walk away with transitive verb[walk away with something] colloquial 
① (win easily) 轻松赢得 qīngsōng yíngdé ‹game, election›
② (receive) 获得 huòdé ‹prize, medal›
③ (take unintentionally) 错拿 cuòná ‹coat, book›
④ (steal) 顺手牵羊拿走 shùn shǒu qiān yáng názǒu ‹wallet›walk in on transitive verb[walk in on somebody/something] 冷不丁进屋撞见 lěngbudīng jìn wū zhuàngjiàn ‹person, scene›walk into transitive verb[walk into something] 
① (enter) 走进 zǒujìn ‹room, building›
② (become entangled in) 陷入 xiànrù ‹trap›you walked right into that one! colloquial 你撞到枪口上了！ 
③ colloquial (get easily) 轻易得到 qīngyì dédào ‹job›
④ (collide with) 不小心撞上 bù xiǎoxīn zhuàngshang ‹person, wall›walk off 
A.  intransitive verb 愤然离开 fènrán líkāi 
B.  transitive verb[walk something off], [walk off something] 散步消除 sànbù xiāochú ‹headache, hangover›; 散步消化 sànbù xiāohuà ‹meal›to walk off one's extra weight 散步减肥 walk on intransitive verb 
① (continue) 继续走 jìxù zǒu 
② (have acting role) 跑龙套 pǎo lóngtào walk out intransitive verb 
① (leave) 走出去 zǒu chuqu 
② colloquial (abandon relationship) 不辞而别 bù cí ér bié to walk out on; 抛弃 ‹partner, marriage› 断绝 duànjué ‹relationship›
③ colloquial (leave job) «employee» 撂挑子 liào tiāozi 
④ (leave early) [为表示不满而] 突然退席 tūrán tuìxí to walk out of …; 突然退出 ‹negotiations, conference› 提前离开 tíqián líkāi ‹film, play›
⑤ (go on strike) «workers» 罢工 bàgōng walk over: transitive verb to walk (all) over [somebody] colloquial (take advantage of) 作践 ‹lover, employee› (defeat easily) 轻松打败 qīngsōng dǎbài ‹opponent, team›walk round intransitive verb, transitive verb BrE = walk around walk up intransitive verb 
① (approach) 走上前去 zǒushang qián qù to walk up to [somebody]; （自信地）走近某人 
② BrE (roll up) 过来看看啊 guòlai kànkàn ɑ [常指招徕顾客的喊声]walk up, walk up! 走过，路过，不要错过！ 
walk 
wôk

▶verb
1 [no object] move at a regular and fairly slow pace by lifting and setting down each foot in turn, never having both feet off the ground at once: I walked across the lawn 
she turned and walked a few paces. 
• use movements similar to walking but with a different part of one's body or a support: he could walk on his hands, carrying a plate on one foot. 
• go on foot for recreation and exercise: you can walk in 21,000 acres of mountain and moorland. 
• [with object] travel along or over (a route or area) on foot: the police department has encouraged officers to walk the beat. 
• (of a quadruped) proceed with the slowest gait, always having at least two feet on the ground at once. 
• [with object] ride (a horse) at its slowest gait: he walked his horse toward her. 
• North American informal abandon or suddenly withdraw from a job, commitment, or situation: they can walk away from the deal 
we were expecting the merger with Bell to go through—we didn't expect Bell to walk on the deal. 
• informal be released from suspicion or from a charge: had any of the others come clean during the trial, he might have walked. 
• used to suggest that someone has achieved a state or position easily or undeservedly: no one has the right to walk straight into a well-paid job for life. 
• (of a ghost) be present and visible: the ghosts of Bannockburn walked abroad. 
• archaic used to describe the way in which someone lives or behaves: walk humbly with your God. 
• Baseball be awarded first base after not swinging at four balls pitched outside the strike zone. 
• [with object] Baseball allow or enable (a batter) to do this. 
• Baseball (of a pitcher) give a walk with the bases loaded so as to force in (a run). 
• Basketball another term for travel ( sense
2 of the verb).
2 [with object] cause or enable (someone or something) to walk or move as though walking: she walked her fingers over the dresses. 
• guide, accompany, or escort (someone) on foot: he walked her home to her door. 
• take (a domestic animal, typically a dog) out for exercise: a man walking his retriever. 
• push (a bicycle or motorcycle) while walking alongside it. 
▶noun
1 an act of traveling or an excursion on foot: he was too restless to sleep, so he went out for a walk. 
• [in singular] used to indicate the time that it will take someone to reach a place on foot or the distance that they must travel: the library is within five minutes' walk. 
• a route recommended or marked out for recreational walking. 
• a sidewalk or path. 
• a part of a forest under one keeper. 
• chiefly British the round followed by a mail carrier: the first job is to sort the mail into routes or walks.
2 [in singular] an unhurried rate of movement on foot: they crossed the field at a leisurely walk. 
• the slowest gait of an animal. 
• a person's manner of walking: the spring was back in his walk.
3 Baseball an instance of being awarded (or allowing a batter to reach) first base after not swinging at four balls pitched outside the strike zone. 
PHRASES
walk all over informal treat in a thoughtless, disrespectful, and exploitative manner: they thought they could come in and walk all over us. 
• defeat easily. walking encyclopedia (also walking dictionary) informal a person who has an impressive knowledge of facts or words. a walk in the park informal something that is very easy to accomplish: as any director will tell you, doing Shakespeare isn't a walk in the park. walk someone off their feet walk with someone until they are exhausted. walk of life the position within society that someone holds or the part of society to which they belong as a result of their job or social status: the courses attracted people from all walks of life. walk of shame informal an instance of walking back home on the day after an unplanned casual sexual encounter, typically dressed in the same clothes as the previous evening: if you're at his and have to make the dreaded walk of shame home, steel yourself. walk on air see air. walk on eggshells be extremely cautious about one's words or actions. walk the walk (also walk the talk) informal, chiefly North American suit one's actions to one's words.walk the plank see plank. walk the streets
1 walk freely in a town or city.
2 work as a prostitute. walk the wards dated gain experience as a clinical medical student. win in a walk North American win without effort or competition.PHRASAL VERBS walk away easily, casually, or irresponsibly abandon a situation in which one is involved or for which one is responsible. walk away with informal another way of saying walk off with. walk something back chiefly US retract a statement or reverse an action or decision: when given the chance to walk her remarks back, she did not. walk for model the clothes of (a particular designer or fashion house) at a fashion show: she's walked for Chanel and Vivienne Westwood. walk in on enter suddenly or unexpectedly. 
• intrude on: he was clearly not expecting her to walk in on him just then. walk into informal encounter or become involved in through ignorance or carelessness: I had walked into a situation from which there was no escape. walk off with informal
1 steal.
2 win: the team walked off with a silver medal. walk something off exercise on foot in order to undo the effects of a heavy meal. walk out
1 depart suddenly or angrily. 
• leave one's job suddenly. 
• go on strike. 
• abandon someone or something toward which one has responsibilities: he walked out on his wife.
2 British informal, dated go for walks in courtship: you were walking out with Tom. walk over informal another way of saying walk all over. walk through rehearse (a play or other piece), reading the lines aloud from a script and performing the actions of the characters. 
• act or perform in a perfunctory or lackluster manner. walk someone through guide (someone) carefully through a process: a meeting to walk parents through the complaint process.ORIGIN Old English wealcan ‘roll, toss,’ also ‘wander,’ of Germanic origin. The sense ‘move around,’ and specifically ‘go around on foot,’ arose in Middle English.
