ward 
BrE wɔːd, AmE wɔrd 
noun 
① Uncountable and countableMedicine (room) 病房 bìngfáng (department) 住院部 zhùyuànbù a maternity/paediatric ward 产科/儿科病房 
② Countable BrE Politics, Administration 选区 xuǎnqū ward councillors/secretaries 选区政务委员/秘书 
③ CountableLaw 受监护人 shòu jiānhù rén to be made a ward of the court 由法院监护 PHRASAL VERB ward off transitive verb[ward something/somebody off], [ward off somebody/something] 躲避 duǒbì ‹attacker, blow, disaster›to ward off evil spirits 驱邪 to ward off a cold/the flu 防止感冒/流感 
ward 
wôrd

▶noun
1 a separate room in a hospital, typically one allocated to a particular type of patient: a children's ward 
[as modifier] : a ward nurse. 
• one of the divisions of a prison.
2 an administrative division of a city or borough that typically elects and is represented by a councilor or councilors. 
• a territorial division of the Mormon Church presided over by a bishop.
3 a person, usually a minor, under the care and control of a guardian appointed by their parents or a court. 
• archaic guardianship or the state of being subject to a guardian: the ward and care of the Crown.
4 (usually wards) any of the internal ridges or bars in a lock that prevent the turning of any key that does not have grooves of corresponding form or size. 
• the corresponding grooves in the bit of a key.
5 archaic the action of keeping a lookout for danger: I saw them keeping ward at one of those huge gates.
6 historical an area of ground enclosed by the encircling walls of a fortress or castle.
7 Fencing a defensive position or motion. 
▶verb [with object]
1 archaic guard; protect: it was his duty to ward the king.
2 admit (a patient) to a hospital ward. 
PHRASES
ward of the court a person, usually a minor or of unsound mind, for whom a guardian has been appointed by a court or who has become directly subject to the authority of that court.PHRASAL VERBS ward someone/something off prevent from harming or affecting one: she put up a hand as if to ward him off.DERIVATIVES wardship 
ˈwôrdˌSHip 
nounORIGIN Old English weard ( sense
5 of the noun, also ‘body of guards’), weardian ‘keep safe, guard,’ of Germanic origin; reinforced in Middle English by Old Northern French warde (noun), warder (verb) ‘guard,’ variants of Old French garde, garder; compare with guard .
