warm 
BrE wɔːm, AmE wɔrm 

A.  adjective 
① (moderately hot) 温暖的 wēnnuǎn de warm weather/climate 温暖的天气/气候 a warm bath 热水澡 warm beer 温啤酒 the water feels warm 水摸上去是温的 we all crowded around the fire to keep warm 我们都挤在炉火边取暖 to make things warm for [somebody] colloquial dated 刁难某人 
② (helping body to retain heat) 保暖的 bǎonuǎn de ‹coat, blanket›; 暖和的 nuǎnhuo de ‹room›it's warm work 这工作干起来浑身发热 
③ (friendly) 热情的 rèqíng de ‹person, smile›to give [somebody] a warm welcome 热烈欢迎某人 warmest regards 最热忱的问候 
④ (enthusiastic) 衷心的 zhōngxīn de ‹congratulations, thanks›
⑤ (pleasant to look at) 暖色调的 nuǎnsèdiào de warm colours 暖色 
⑥ (pleasant to hear) 暖人心扉的 nuǎn rén xīnfēi de ‹sound›warm tones 温暖的音色 
⑦ (recent) 新鲜的 xīnxiān de fortunately, the scent was still warm 幸运的是气味还很浓 the police are trying to find new evidence while the trail is still warm 警方趁线索未断试图找到新的证据 
⑧ predicative (as instruction in game) [尤指在儿童游戏中] 快要找到的 kuài yào zhǎodào de (when guessing) 即将猜中的 jíjiāng cāizhòng de you're very warm now! 你快要找到了！ 
B.  transitive verb 
① (heat up) 使…暖和 shǐ… nuǎnhuo ‹person, bed›; 加热 jiārè ‹food, dish›she was warming her hands by the fire 她正在炉边暖手 I took a nip of brandy to warm me 我呷了一口白兰地来暖暖身子 
② (gladden) 使…感到温暖 shǐ… gǎndào wēnnuǎn ‹person, heart›
C.  intransitive verb 
① (heat up) 变暖和 biàn nuǎnhuo she put the milk to warm on the stove for a minute 她把牛奶放到炉子上热了一分钟 
② (become happy) «person, heart» 变得快活 biàn de kuàihuo 
D.  reflexive verb to warm oneself 取暖 qǔnuǎn 
E.  nouncolloquial 
① BrE (place or area) the warm 暖和的地方 nuǎnhuo de dìfang 
② (action) (of warming sth.) 加热 jiārè (of warming oneself) 取暖 qǔnuǎn to give [something] a warm 热一下 ‹dish› 暖一下 nuǎn yīxià ‹hands›PHRASAL VERBS warm down intransitive verb 做放松运动 zuò fàngsōng yùndòng warm over transitive verb AmE [warm something over], [warm over something] 加热 jiārè ‹food›warm to, warm towards transitive verb[warm to somebody/something] 
① (start to like) 喜欢上 xǐhuan shang ‹person, style›
② (get more enthusiastic about) 开始热衷于 kāishǐ rèzhōng yú ‹idea, cause›the speaker was warming to his theme 演讲者对他的题目越说越来劲 warm up 
A.  intransitive verb 
① (reach warm temperature) 变暖 biànnuǎn 
② (be reheated) «food» 重新加热 chóngxīn jiārè 
③ (prepare for exercise) «athlete» 做热身运动 zuò rèshēn yùndòng 
④ (prepare for performance) «performer, orchestra» 做准备 zuò zhǔnbèi 
⑤ (become ready to operate) «engine, appliance» 预热 yùrè 
⑥ (become livelier) «audience, party» 热烈起来 rèliè qilai ; «debate, campaign» 激烈起来 jīliè qilai 
B.  transitive verb[warm somebody/something up], [warm up somebody/something] 
① (bring to warm temperature) 使…暖和 shǐ… nuǎnhuo ‹person, room, bed›; 加热 jiārè ‹liquid, dish›
② (reheat) 重新加热 chóngxīn jiārè ‹food›
③ (prepare for exercise) 使…做热身运动 shǐ… zuò rèshēn yùndòng ‹athlete, team›
④ (prepare for performance) 使…做准备 shǐ… zuò zhǔnbèi ‹performer, orchestra›; 准备 zhǔnbèi ‹instrument›to warm up one's voice 练嗓子 
⑤ (make ready to operate) 预热 yùrè ‹engine, appliance›
⑥ (make livelier) 使…活跃起来 shǐ… huóyuè qilai ‹audience, crowd›
warm 
wôrm

▶adjective
1 of or at a fairly or comfortably high temperature: a warm September evening 
[as complement] : I walked quickly to keep warm. 
• (of clothes or coverings) made of a material that helps the body to retain heat; suitable for cold weather: a warm winter coat. 
• (of a color) containing red, yellow, or orange tones: her fair coloring suited soft, warm shades. 
• Hunting (of a scent or trail) fresh; strong. 
• (of a soil) quick to absorb heat or retaining heat.
2 having, showing, or expressive of enthusiasm, affection, or kindness: they exchanged warm, friendly smiles 
a warm welcome. 
• archaic characterized by lively or heated disagreement: a warm debate arose. 
• archaic sexually explicit or titillating.
3 [predicative] informal (especially in children's games) close to discovering something or guessing the correct answer: you're getting warmer. 
▶verb make or become warm: [with object] : I stamped my feet to warm them up 
figurative : the film warmed our hearts 
[no object] : it's a bit chilly in here, but it'll soon warm up. 
PHRASES
keep something warm for someone hold or occupy a place or post until another person is ready to do so. warm fuzzy (or warm and fuzzy) informal, chiefly US used to refer to a sentimentally emotional response or something designed to evoke such a response: babies require a lot of attention, not just momentary warm fuzzies.PHRASAL VERBS warm down recover from strenuous physical exertion by doing gentle stretches and exercises. warm to/toward (or warm up to/toward) begin to like (someone): she and Will had really warmed up to each other. 
• become more interested in or enthusiastic about (something): I never really warmed to the idea of moving.warm up prepare for physical exertion or a performance by exercising or practicing gently beforehand: the band was warming up. 
• (of an engine or electrical appliance) reach a temperature high enough to allow it to operate efficiently. 
• become livelier or more animated: after several more rounds, things began to warm up in the bar. warm something up (or over) reheat previously cooked food. 
• amuse or entertain an audience or crowd so as to make them more receptive to the main act.DERIVATIVES warmish 
ˈwôrmiSH 
adjective. warmness 
ˈwôrmnəs 
nounORIGIN Old English wearm (adjective), werman, wearmian (verb), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch and German warm, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin formus ‘warm’ and Greek thermos ‘hot.’
