warrant 
BrE ˈwɒr(ə)nt, AmE ˈwɔrənt 

A.  transitive verb 
① (justify) «fact, situation» 证明…正当 zhèngmíng… zhèngdàng ‹behaviour, measure›
② Busn «company» 为…作担保 wèi… zuò dānbǎo ‹product, accuracy›
③ dated (assure) 打保票 dǎ bǎopiào he'll be back, I'll warrant you 他会回来的，我向你保证 
B.  noun 
① CountableLaw 授权令 shòuquánlìng an arrest/a search warrant 逮捕/搜查令 
② Uncountable(justification) 正当理由 zhèngdàng lǐyóu to be no/sufficient warrant for [something]/for doing [something]/to do [something]; 某事/做某事没有依据/有足够依据 
③ Countable(voucher) 许可证 xǔkězhèng 
④ CountableFinance 认股权证 rèngǔ quánzhèng 
⑤ Uncountableformal (legal authority) 授权 shòuquán 
⑥ CountableMilitary 准尉委任状 zhǔnwèi wěirènzhuàng 
warrant 
ˈwôrənt

▶noun
1 a document issued by a legal or government official authorizing the police or some other body to make an arrest, search premises, or carry out some other action relating to the administration of justice: magistrates issued a warrant for his arrest 
an extradition warrant. 
• a document that entitles the holder to receive goods, money, or services: we'll issue you with a travel warrant. 
• Finance a negotiable security allowing the holder to buy shares at a specified price at or before some future date. 
• [usually with negative] justification or authority for an action, belief, or feeling: there is no warrant for this assumption.
2 an official certificate of appointment issued to an officer of lower rank than a commissioned officer. 
▶verb [with object] justify or necessitate (a certain course of action): that offense is serious enough to warrant a court martial. 
• officially affirm or guarantee: the vendor warrants the accuracy of the report. 
PHRASES
I (or I'll) warrant (you) dated used to express the speaker's certainty about a fact or situation: I'll warrant you'll thank me for it in years to come.DERIVATIVES warranter 
ˈwôrən(t)ər 
nounORIGIN Middle English (in the senses ‘protector’ and ‘safeguard,’ also, as a verb, ‘keep safe from danger’): from variants of Old French guarant (noun), guarantir (verb), of Germanic origin; compare with guarantee .
