wash 
BrE wɒʃ, AmE wɑʃ, wɔʃ 

A.  transitive verb 
① (clean by hand) 给…洗澡 gěi… xǐzǎo ‹person, animal›; 洗 xǐ ‹face, hair, clothes›; 洗刷 xǐshuā ‹car, floor›the rain had washed the streets clean 雨把街道冲刷得一干二净 to wash one's hands of [somebody]/[something] 对…甩手不管 ‹person, matter›
② (clean by machine) 机洗 jīxǐ 
③ Zoology (clean with tongue) 舔 tiǎn ‹paws, fur›
④ (carry) 冲走 chōngzǒu to wash [something] along; «tide, river» 冲走某物 to wash [somebody]/[something] into [something]; «river, current» 将某人/某物冲入某处 to be washed downstream 被冲向下游 to be washed out to sea 被冲到海里 to be washed overboard «person, cargo» 被浪从船上冲入水中 
⑤ literary (lap against) «sea, tide» 拍打 pāida ‹shore, island›
⑥ (dig out) «river» 冲蚀出 chōngshí chū ‹channel›the water had washed a hole in the bank 水把堤岸冲出一个洞 
⑦ (when decorating) 涂 tú we washed the walls in pink 我们把墙壁刷成粉色 
⑧ Art 在…上涂一薄层颜料 zài… shang tú yī báo céng yánliào ‹picture›
⑨ (sift out) 淘 táo ‹gold›; 洗 xǐ ‹ore›
⑩ (purify by separation) 洗涤 xǐdí ‹gas, vapour›
B.  intransitive verb 
① especially BrE (clean oneself) 洗澡 xǐzǎo 
② (do laundry) 洗衣服 xǐ yīfú 
③ (have effect as detergent) «detergent» 有去污力 yǒu qùwūlì 
④ (withstand cleaning) «fabric, dye, colour» 耐洗 nàixǐ 
⑤ (flow) 流动 liúdòng the waves washed against the side of the boat 波浪拍打着船舷 to wash around; 四处流动 
⑥ (be carried) to wash ashore «body, wreckage» 被冲上岸 bèi chōngshang'àn 
⑦ colloquial (be believed) 可信 kěxìn that excuse won't wash with me 那个借口我难以相信 
C.  reflexive verbespecially BrE to wash oneself «person» 洗澡 xǐzǎo to wash itself «cat» 舔自己的身体 tiǎn zìjǐ de shēntǐ 
D.  noun 
① Countableespecially BrE (cleaning by hand) 洗 xǐ you need a good wash 你需要好好洗个澡 to give [somebody]/[something] a wash 给某人洗澡/给某物洗一下 to have a wash 洗澡 xǐzǎo 
② Countableespecially BrE (cleaning by machine) 机洗 jīxǐ a low-temperature wash 低温洗涤 my sweater shrank in the wash 我的毛线衫机洗后缩水了 it'll (all) come out in the wash colloquial (be revealed) （一切）终将水落石出 (be resolved) （所有）问题终会解决 
③ Countableespecially BrE (clothes) (to be laundered) 待洗的衣物 dài xǐ de yīwù (being laundered) 正在洗的衣物 zhèngzài xǐ de yīwù (already laundered) 洗好的衣物 xǐhǎo de yīwù 
④ Countable(trail of water) [船驶过引起的] 水流 shuǐliú (sound of trail of water) [船驶过引起的] 波浪拍打声 bōlàng pāida shēng 
⑤ Countable(movement of waves) 波浪的拍击 bōlàng de pāijī (sound of waves) 波浪的拍击声 bōlàng de pāijī shēng 
⑥ Countable and uncountableArt (layer, coating) 薄涂层 báo túcéng 
⑦ UncountableArt (technique) 淡水彩画技巧 dànshuǐcǎihuà jìqiǎo 
⑧ CountableArt (picture) 淡水彩画 dànshuǐcǎihuà 
⑨ Countable and uncountable(skin lotion) 洗液 xǐyè a gentle, foaming facial wash 一种温和的泡沫洁面乳 PHRASAL VERBS wash away 
A.  transitive verb[wash something away], [wash away something] 
① (carry off) 将…冲垮 jiāng… chōngkuǎ ‹road, bridge›; 将…冲走 jiāng… chōngzǒu ‹debris›
② (erode) 冲蚀 chōngshí ‹cliff, bank›
③ (remove by cleaning) 洗掉 xǐdiào ‹dirt›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (be carried off) «road, bridge» 被冲垮 bèi chōngkuǎ ; «debris» 被冲走 bèi chōngzǒu 
② (be eroded) «cliff, bank» 被冲蚀 bèi chōngshí wash down transitive verb[wash something down], [wash down something] 
① (clean) 冲洗 chōngxǐ ‹wall, deck›
② (drink) (as accompaniment) 就着…喝 jiùzhe… hē ‹food›(as aid to swallowing) 用水吞服 yòng shuǐ tūnfú ‹medicine, pill›we washed down the hors d'oeuvres with a glass of white wine 我们吃完开胃小菜后喝了一杯白葡萄酒 wash off 
A.  transitive verb[wash something off], [wash off something] 洗掉 xǐdiào ‹dirt, stain›that red wine is going to be hard to wash off 那块红葡萄酒污渍很难洗掉 
B.  intransitive verb «dirt, stain» 被洗掉 bèi xǐdiào that stain will wash off easily 那污渍可以很容易洗掉 wash out 
A.  transitive verb[wash something out], [wash out something] 
① (clean inside of) 清洗…的内部 qīngxǐ… de nèibù ‹container›
② (remove by cleaning) 洗掉 xǐdiào ‹stain, dye›
③ (clean quickly) 洗一洗 xǐ yī xǐ ‹garment, paintbrush›
④ (rain off) 使…因雨取消 shǐ… yīn yǔ qǔxiāo ‹event, game›
⑤ AmE colloquial (dismiss) 淘汰 táotài ‹trainee, student›
B.  intransitive verb 
① (be removed by cleaning) «stain, dye» 被洗掉 bèi xǐdiào 
② AmE colloquial (be dismissed) «trainee, student» 被淘汰 bèi táotài wash over 
A.  [wash over something] transitive verb (flow over) «water, waves» 冲过 chōngguo ‹deck, bank›
B.  [wash over somebody] transitive verb 
① (affect) «guilt, pleasure» 涌上…的心头 yǒngshang… de xīntóu a great feeling of relief washed over me 我突然感到如释重负 waves of nausea washed over him 一阵阵恶心的感觉涌上他的心头 
② colloquial (not affect) «criticism, speech» 对…没有太大影响 duì… méiyǒu tài dà yǐngxiǎng wash through transitive verb 
① [wash something through], [wash through something] (clean quickly) 洗一洗 xǐ yī xǐ ‹garment, paintbrush›
② [wash through somebody] (affect) «anger, relief» 涌上…的心头 yǒngshang… de xīntóu wash up 
A.  intransitive verb 
① BrE (do dishes) 洗碗 xǐwǎn 
② (be carried on to shore) «debris» 被冲上岸 bèi chōngshang'àn an oil slick washed up on the beaches 浮油被冲上了海滩 
③ AmE (clean one's face and hands) 洗手洗脸 xǐ shǒu xǐ liǎn 
B.  transitive verb[wash something up], [wash up something] 
① BrE (clean) 洗 xǐ ‹dishes, cutlery›
② (carry on to shore) 把…冲上岸 bǎ… chōngshang'àn ‹debris›
wash 
wäSH wôSH

▶verb
1 [with object] clean with water and, typically, soap or detergent: I stripped and washed myself all over. 
• [no object] clean oneself, especially one's hands and face with soap and water. 
• (with reference to a stain or dirt) remove or be removed by cleaning with water and detergent: they have to keep washing the mold off the walls 
figurative : all that hate can't wash away the guilt 
[no object] : the dirt on his clothes would easily wash out. 
• [no object] (of fabric, a garment, or dye) withstand cleaning to a specified degree without shrinking or fading: a linen-mix yarn that washes well. 
• [no object] do one's laundry: I need someone to cook and wash for me. 
• literary wet or moisten (something) thoroughly: you are beautiful with your face washed with rain.
2 [with object] (of flowing water) carry (someone or something) in a particular direction: floods washed away the bridges. 
• [no object] be carried by flowing water: an oil slick washed up on the beaches. 
• [no object] (especially of waves) sweep, move, or splash in a particular direction: the sea began to wash along the decks. 
• (of a river, sea, or lake) flow through or lap against (a country, coast, etc.): offshore islands washed by warm blue seas. 
• sift metallic particles from (earth or gravel) by running water through it.
3 [with object] brush with a thin coat of diluted paint or ink: the walls were washed with shades of umber. 
• (wash something with) coat inferior metal with (a film of gold or silver from a solution).
4 [no object] informal seem convincing or genuine: charm won't wash with this crew. 
▶noun
1 [usually in singular] an act of washing something or an instance of being washed. 
• a quantity of clothes needing to be or just having been washed: she hung out her Tuesday wash. 
• a medicinal or cleansing solution: mouth wash.
2 [in singular] the disturbed water or air behind a moving boat or aircraft or the sound made by this: the wash of a motorboat. 
• the surging of water or breaking of waves or the sound made by this: the wash of waves on the pebbled beach.
3 a layer of paint or metal spread thinly on a surface: the walls were covered with a pale lemon wash.
4 silt or gravel carried by a stream or river and deposited as sediment. 
• a sandbank exposed only at low tide. 
• (in the western US) a dry bed of a stream, typically in a ravine, that flows only seasonally.
5 kitchen slops and other food waste fed to pigs.
6 malt fermenting in preparation for distillation.
7 [in singular] North American informal a situation or result that is of no benefit to either of two opposing sides: the plan's impact on jobs would be a wash, creating as many as it costs. 
PHRASES
come out in the wash informal be resolved eventually with no lasting harm: he's not happy, but he assures me it'll all come out in the wash. in the wash (of clothes, bed linen, or similar) put aside for washing or in the process of being washed. one hand washes the other mutual favors are exchanged: You can be on the list if you also link to our page. One hand washes the other. wash (or air) one's dirty linen (or laundry) in public informal (of an individual or a member of an organization) discuss or argue about one's private affairs in public. wash one's hands go to the toilet (used euphemistically). wash one's hands of disclaim responsibility for: the social services washed their hands of his daughter. [originally with biblical allusion to Matt. 27:24.] wash one's mouth out (with soap) [often as imperative] stop swearing.PHRASAL VERBS wash something down accompany or follow food with a drink: bacon and eggs washed down with a cup of tea. wash out (or wash someone out) North American be excluded (or exclude someone) from a course or position after a failure to meet the required standards: a lot of them had washed out of pilot training.wash something out
1 cause an event to be postponed or canceled because of rain: the game was washed out.
2 (of a flood or downpour) make a breach in a road. wash over (of a feeling) affect (someone) suddenly: a deep feeling of sadness washed over her. 
• occur all around without greatly affecting (someone): she allowed the babble of conversation to wash over her.ORIGIN Old English wæscan (verb), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch wassen,German waschen, also to water .
