waste 
BrE weɪst, AmE weɪst 

A.  transitive verb 
① (squander) 浪费 làngfèi ‹resources, money›her irony was wasted on him 她的嘲讽对他没起作用 she wasted no time in rejecting the offer 她当即拒绝了那个提议 
② (not make full use of) 荒废 huāngfèi ‹opportunity, talents›
③ (make emaciated) «illness, hunger» 使…衰弱 shǐ… shuāiruò ‹person›
④ especially AmE colloquial (kill) 干掉 gàndiào ‹person›
⑤ AmE colloquial (defeat) 把…打得落花流水 bǎ… dǎ de luò huā liú shuǐ ‹player, team›
B.  intransitive verb «food, material» 被浪费 bèi làngfèi waste not, want not proverb 勤俭节约，吃穿不缺 
C.  noun 
① Countable and uncountable(extravagant use) 浪费 làngfèi to go to waste 被浪费掉 it was a real waste to spend so much on the shirt 在那件衬衫上花那么多钱真是浪费 
② Countable(pointless use) 白费 báifèi a waste of time/energy 白费时间/力气 a waste of space colloquial 饭桶 
③ Countable and uncountable(unwanted material) 废物 fèiwù household waste 生活垃圾 radioactive waste 放射性废物 
④ Uncountable(product of the body) 排泄物 páixièwù 
⑤ Countableformal (area of land) 荒野 huāngyě icy/snowy wastes 冰原/雪原 
D.  adjective 
① (unwanted) 废弃的 fèiqì de waste water/gases/plastics 污水/废气/废塑料 waste materials or matter 废物 fèiwù 
② (derelict) 未开垦的 wèi kāikěn de ‹ground›to lay [something] waste or lay waste (to) [something] formal 把某处夷为平地 PHRASAL VERB waste away intransitive verb 变瘦弱 biàn shòuruò 
waste 
wāst

▶verb
1 [with object] use or expend carelessly, extravagantly, or to no purpose: we can't afford to waste electricity 
I don't use the car, so why should I waste precious money on it? 
• (usually be wasted on) bestow or expend on an unappreciative recipient: her small talk was wasted on this guest. 
• (usually be wasted) fail to make full or good use of: we're wasted in this job.
2 [no object] (of a person or a part of the body) become progressively weaker and more emaciated: she was dying of AIDS, visibly wasting away 
(as adjective wasting) : a wasting disease. 
• [with object] archaic cause to do this: these symptoms wasted the patients very much.
3 [with object] literary devastate or ruin (a place): he seized their cattle and wasted their country. 
• North American informal kill or severely injure (someone): I saw them waste the guy I worked for.
4 [no object] literary (of time) pass away; be spent: the years were wasting. 
▶adjective [attributive]
1 (of a material, substance, or byproduct) eliminated or discarded as no longer useful or required after the completion of a process: ensure that waste materials are disposed of responsibly 
plants produce oxygen as a waste product.
2 (of an area of land, typically in a city or town) not used, cultivated, or built on: a patch of waste ground. 
▶noun
1 an act or instance of using or expending something carelessly, extravagantly, or to no purpose: it's a waste of time trying to argue with him 
they had learned to avoid waste. 
• archaic the gradual loss or diminution of something: he was pale and weak from waste of blood.
2 material that is not wanted; the unusable remains or byproducts of something: bodily waste 
(wastes) : hazardous industrial wastes.
3 (usually wastes) a large area of barren, typically uninhabited land: the icy wastes of the Antarctic.
4 Law damage to an estate caused by an act or by neglect, especially by a life-tenant. 
PHRASES
go to waste be unused or expended to no purpose. lay waste to (or lay something (to) waste) completely destroy: a land laid waste by war.waste one's breath see breath. waste not, want not proverb if you use a commodity or resource carefully and without extravagance, you will never be in need. waste words see word. ORIGIN Middle English: from Old Northern French wast(e) (noun), waster (verb), based on Latin vastus ‘unoccupied, uncultivated’; compare with vast .
