water 
BrE ˈwɔːtə, AmE ˈwɔdər, ˈwɑdər 

A.  nounUncountable
① (substance) 水 shuǐ a glass/jug of water 一杯水/一壶水 under water 被水淹没的 to make water «ship» 漏水 to spend money like water colloquial 挥金如土 to not hold water «argument, theory» 站不住脚 before noun (substance) 水的 shuǐ de a water molecule/vapour/droplet 水分子/水蒸气/水滴 (containing water) 盛水的 chéng shuǐ de ‹container›a water glass/jug 水杯/水壶 (aquatic) 水生的 shuǐshēng de ‹creature, plant›
② (supply) 供水 gōngshuǐ to turn on/off the water (from tap) 打开/关上水龙头 (at mains) 打开/关闭自来水总管 before noun 供水的 gōngshuǐ de water shortages 供水短缺 a water tank/pump 水箱/水泵 
③ (area) 一片水 yī piàn shuǐ shallow/deep water 浅水区/深水区 by water formal 经由水路 across or over the water formal 在彼岸 
④ (surface) 水面 shuǐmiàn can you swim under water? 你会潜泳吗？ to keep one's head above water 把头保持在水面上 figurative 勉强应付 miǎnqiǎng yìngfù to walk on water figurative 创造奇迹 
⑤ formal (urine) 尿 niào to pass or make water 小便 
B.  waters noun plural 
① Geography 水体 shuǐtǐ the waters of the Nile 尼罗河水域 the stormy waters of the Atlantic 大西洋汹涌澎湃的海水 
② Politics 领海 lǐnghǎi British waters 英国领海 
③ (situation) 复杂局面 fùzá júmiàn to fish in murky waters 混水摸鱼 unknown waters 不明朗的局势 
④ (in childbirth) 羊水 yángshuǐ her waters have broken 她羊水破了 
⑤ dated (of spa) 矿泉水 kuàngquánshuǐ to take the waters (by drinking) 喝矿泉水 (by bathing) 洗矿泉浴 
C.  transitive verb 
① (pour water over) 给…浇水 gěi… jiāo shuǐ ‹crop, lawn, plant›
② (provide drink for) 给…水喝 gěi… shuǐ hē ‹livestock›the riders stopped to water their horses 骑手们停下来饮马 
③ literary (flow through) «river» 流经 liú jīng ‹region, plain›
④ (dilute) 在…里掺水 zài… li chān shuǐ ‹wine, whisky›
D.  intransitive verb 
① (produce tears) 流泪 liú lèi my eyes always water when I peel onions 我剥洋葱时总是流泪 
② (produce saliva) «mouth» 流口水 liú kǒushuǐ PHRASAL VERB water down transitive verb[water something down], [water down something] 
① (dilute) 在…里掺水 zài… li chān shuǐ ‹drink›
② figurative (tone down) 使…缓和 shǐ… huǎnhé ‹criticism, policy›
③ Finance 虚增 xūzēng ‹capital, stock›
water 
ˈwôdər ˈwädər

▶noun
1 a colorless, transparent, odorless, tasteless liquid that forms the seas, lakes, rivers, and rain and is the basis of the fluids of living organisms. 
• water as supplied to houses or commercial establishments through pipes and taps: each bedroom has a washbasin with hot and cold water 
[as modifier] : water pipes. 
• one of the four elements in ancient and medieval philosophy and in astrology (considered essential to the nature of the signs Cancer, Scorpio, and Pisces): [as modifier] : a water sign. 
• (usually the waters) the water of a mineral spring, typically as used medicinally for bathing in or drinking: resorts where southerners came to take the waters. 
• [with modifier] a solution of a specified substance in water: ammonia water. 
• urine: drinking alcohol will make you need to pass water more often. 
• (waters) the amniotic fluid surrounding a fetus in the womb, especially as discharged in a flow shortly before birth: I think my waters have broken. Water is a compound of oxygen and hydrogen (chemical formula: H 2O) with highly distinctive physical and chemical properties: it is able to dissolve many other substances; its solid form (ice) is less dense than the liquid form; its boiling point, viscosity, and surface tension are unusually high for its molecular weight, and it is partially dissociated into hydrogen and hydroxyl ions.
2 (the water) a stretch or area of water, such as a river, sea, or lake: the lawns ran down to the water's edge. 
• the surface of an area of water: she ducked under the water. 
• [as modifier] found in, on, or near areas of water: a water plant. 
• (waters) the water of a particular sea, river, or lake: the waters of Hudson Bay 
figurative : the government is taking us into unknown waters with these changes in the legislation. 
• (waters) an area of sea regarded as under the jurisdiction of a particular country: Japanese coastal waters.
3 the quality of transparency and brilliance shown by a diamond or other gem.
4 Finance capital stock that represents a book value greater than the true assets of a company. 
▶verb
1 [with object] pour or sprinkle water over (a plant or an area of ground), typically in order to encourage plant growth: I went out to water the geraniums. 
• give a drink of water to (an animal): they stopped to water the horses and to refresh themselves. 
• [no object] (of an animal) drink water. 
• (usually be watered) (of a river) flow through (an area of land): the valley is watered by the Pines River. 
• take a fresh supply of water on board (a ship or steam train): the ship was watered and fresh livestock taken aboard. 
• Finance increase (a company's debt, or nominal capital) by the issue of new shares without a corresponding addition to assets.
2 [no object] (of the eyes) become full of moisture or tears: Rory blinked, his eyes watering. 
• (of the mouth) produce saliva, typically in response to the sight or smell of appetizing food: the smell of frying bacon made Hilary's mouth water.
3 [with object] dilute or adulterate (a drink, typically an alcoholic one) with water: staff at the club had been watering down the drinks. 
• (water something down) make a statement or proposal less forceful or controversial by changing or leaving out certain details: the army's report of its investigation was considerably watered down. 
PHRASES
by water using a ship or boat for travel or transport: at the end of the lake was a small gazebo, accessible only by water. cast one's bread upon the waters see bread. like water in great quantities: George was spending money like water. make water
1 urinate.
2 (of a ship or boat) take in water through a leak. of the first water (of a diamond or pearl) of the greatest brilliance and transparency. 
• (typically of someone or something perceived as undesirable or annoying) extreme or unsurpassed of their kind: she was a bore of the first water. under water submerged; flooded. the water of life whiskey. water off a duck's back see duck1. water on the brain informal hydrocephalus. water under the bridge (or water over the dam) used to refer to events or situations that are in the past and consequently no longer to be regarded as important or as a source of concern.DERIVATIVES waterer 
ˈwôdərər ˈwädərər 
noun. waterless 
ˈwôdərləs ˈwädərləs 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English wæter (noun), wæterian (verb), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch water,German Wasser, from an Indo-European root shared by Russian voda (compare with vodka), also by Latin unda ‘wave’ and Greek hudōr ‘water.’
