weather 
BrE ˈwɛðə, AmE ˈwɛðər 

A.  nounUncountable
① (meteorological conditions) 天气 tiānqì good or fine weather 好天气 windy/rainy weather 刮风天/下雨天 sunny/cloudy weather 晴天/阴天 weather permitting 天气好的话 in all weathers BrE 不论天气好坏 whatever the weather 无论如何 under the weather colloquial 略有不适 to make heavy weather of [something] 对某事小题大做 students make such heavy weather of this question 学生们把这个问题弄得太复杂了 weather conditions, the weather situation 天气状况 
② (adverse meteorological conditions) 恶劣天气 èliè tiānqì to be exposed to the weather 经受日晒雨淋 
③ colloquial (forecast) the weather 天气预报 tiānqì yùbào 
B.  transitive verb 
① (undergo or cause to undergo change) 使受日晒雨淋 shǐ shòu rì shài yǔ lín buildings weathered by the soot and grime of the industrial revolution 遭受工业革命的煤烟和污垢侵蚀的建筑物 her face has been weathered by the sun 她的脸晒黑了 
② (withstand) 经受住 jīngshòu zhù ‹gale, upheaval, crisis›to weather the storm «ship» 经受住风暴的袭击 figurative «company, government» 平安渡过危机 píng'ān dùguo wēijī 
C.  intransitive verb «rock, timber, paintwork» 遭受日晒雨淋 zāoshòu rì shài yǔ lín 
weather 
ˈweT͟Hər

▶noun the state of the atmosphere at a place and time as regards heat, dryness, sunshine, wind, rain, etc.: if the weather's good, we can go for a walk. 
• cold, wet, and unpleasant or unpredictable atmospheric conditions; the elements: stone walls provide shelter from wind and weather. 
• [as modifier] denoting the side from which the wind is blowing, especially on board a ship; windward: the weather side of the yacht. Contrasted with lee. 
▶verb [with object]
1 wear away or change the appearance or texture of (something) by long exposure to the air: his skin was weathered almost black by his long outdoor life. 
• [no object] (of rock or other material) be worn away or altered by long exposure to the air: the ice sheet preserves specimens that would weather away more quickly in other regions. 
• (usually as noun weathering) Falconry allow (a hawk) to spend a period perched on a block in the open air.
2 come safely through (a storm). 
• withstand (a difficulty or danger): this year has tested industry's ability to weather recession. 
• Sailing (of a ship) get to the windward of (a cape or other obstacle).
3 make (boards or tiles) overlap downward to keep out rain. 
• (in building) slope or bevel (a surface) to throw off rain. 
PHRASES
keep a weather eye on observe very carefully, especially for changes or developments. make heavy weather of informal have unnecessary difficulty in dealing with (a task or problem). [from the nautical phrase make good or bad weather of it, referring to a ship in a storm.] under the weather informal slightly unwell or in low spirits.ORIGIN Old English weder, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch weer and German Wetter, probably also to the noun wind1 .
