weave 
BrE wiːv, AmE wiv 

A.  transitive verb 
① (past tense wove, past participle woven) (interlace) 织 zhī ‹wool, silk, cloth, tapestry›some thick mohairs can be difficult to weave 有些粗马海毛很难织 to weave [something] together; 将某物织在一起 
② (past tense wove, past participle woven) (intertwine) 编 biān ‹basket, garland›to weave [something] from or out of [something]; 用某物编织某物 
③ (past tense wove, past participle woven) Zoology (spin) «spider» 结 jié ‹web›
④ (past tense wove, past participle woven) (create from interconnected elements) 编造 biānzào ‹plot, pattern›to weave one's magic or a spell (on or over [somebody]/[something]) especially BrE （对某人/某物）施展魔力 they're hoping the new manager will be able to weave his magic on the team 他们希望新经理能给球队带来奇迹 
⑤ (past tense wove, past participle woven) (put together) 编排 biānpái ‹facts, events›the biography weaves together the various strands of Einstein’s life 这部传记汇集了爱因斯坦的多条人生轨迹 
⑥ (past tense, past participle weaved) (pursue) 沿…迂回前行 yán… yūhuí qiánxíng ‹course›the river weaves its way across the plain 河流蜿蜒流过平原 she weaved a path towards him through the crowd 她迂回地穿过人群向他走去 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (past tense wove, past participle woven) (make fabric) 织布 zhī bù 
② (past tense, past participle weaved) (pursue twisting course) «driver, vehicle, river» 迂回前行 yūhuí qiánxíng to weave in and out; 穿进穿出 the road weaves through a range of hills 这条路在丘陵间绕来绕去 to weave to and fro; 来回穿梭 to get weaving BrE dated colloquial 立刻动手 come on, let's get weaving, or we'll be late 快点，我们马上动身吧，要不就晚了 
③ (past tense, past participle weaved) (sway) «drunk» 摇摇晃晃 yáoyáohuànghuàng (dodge) «boxer» 闪避 shǎnbì 
C.  nounCountable and uncountable织法 zhīfǎ open or loose/fine or close weave 针孔稀疏/细密的织法 
weave
1 
wēv

▶verb (past wove 
wōv
; past participle woven 
ˈwōvən
or wove) [with object] form (fabric or a fabric item) by interlacing long threads passing in one direction with others at a right angle to them: linen was woven in the district. 
• form (thread) into fabric by interlacing: some thick mohairs can be difficult to weave. 
• [no object] (usually as noun weaving) make fabric by interlacing threads on a loom: cotton spinning and weaving was done in mills. 
• make (a complex story or pattern) from a number of interconnected elements: he weaves colorful, cinematic plots. 
• (weave something into) include an element in (such a story or pattern): flashbacks are woven into the narrative. 
▶noun
1 [usually with adjective] a particular style or manner in which something is woven: scarlet cloth of a very fine weave.
2 a hairstyle created by weaving pieces of real or artificial hair into a person's existing hair, typically in order to increase its length or thickness: trailers show him with dyed blond hair and, in one scene, a flowing blond weave. ORIGIN Old English wefan, of Germanic origin, from an Indo-European root shared by Greek huphē ‘web’ and Sanskrit ūrṇavābhi ‘spider,’ literally ‘wool-weaver.’ The current noun sense dates from the late 19th century.
