week 
BrE wiːk, AmE wik 
noun 
① (Sunday to Saturday or Monday to Sunday) 星期 xīngqī this/last/next week 本/上/下星期 the end of the week 周末 week in, week out 每个星期都 to not know what day of the week it is 稀里糊涂 to knock [somebody] into the middle of next week dated colloquial 打得某人分不清东西南北 
② (seven-day period) 一周 yī zhōu for six weeks 达六周 in a week 一周之内 a week today BrE, today week BrE, a week from today AmE 一周后的今天 Monday week BrE 一周后的星期一 a week tomorrow BrE, tomorrow week BrE, a week from tomorrow AmE 一周后的明天 weeks ago 几个星期以前 weeks ahead 提前几周 a week's holiday 一周的假期 weeks and weeks, week after week 一周接一周 
③ (Monday to Friday) [与周末相对的] 工作周 gōngzuòzhōu in the week BrE 在工作周期间 
④ (working time) [周一到周五的] 工作时间 gōngzuò shíjiān a 35-hour week 35小时的周工作时间 
week 
wēk

▶noun a period of seven days: the course lasts sixteen weeks 
he'd cut the grass a week ago. 
• the period of seven days generally reckoned from and to midnight on Saturday night: she has an art class twice a week. 
• workdays as opposed to the weekend; the five days from Monday to Friday: I work during the week, so I can only get to this shop on Saturdays. 
• the time spent working in the workday period of five to seven days: she works a 48-hour week. 
• a period of five or seven days devoted to a specified purpose or beginning on a specified day: Super Bowl week 
the week of June 23. 
• informal, chiefly British used after the name of a day to indicate that something will happen seven days after that day: the program will be broadcast on Sunday week. 
PHRASES
week after week during each successive week, especially over a long period: week after week of overcast skies. week by week gradually and steadily over the weeks: Monday evening demonstrations grew week by week. a week from —— used to state that something is due to happen seven days after the specified day or date: we'll be back a week from Friday. week in, week out every week without exception.ORIGIN Old English wice, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch week and German Woche, from a base probably meaning ‘sequence, series.’
