weigh 
BrE weɪ, AmE weɪ 

A.  transitive verb 
① (have weight of) «person, object» 有…重 yǒu… zhòng ‹ounce, stone, kilo›what or how much do you weigh? 你体重多少？ 
② (measure weight of) 称…的重量 chēng… de zhòngliàng ‹baby, object›to weigh one's suitcase on the scales 在磅秤上称手提箱的重量 
③ (balance in hands) 掂…的重量 diān… de zhòngliàng ‹object›
④ (consider carefully) 权衡 quánhéng ‹factors, advantages, cost›to weigh one's words 斟酌词句 to weigh the benefits against the risks; 权衡利益和风险 
⑤ Nautical to weigh anchor 起锚 qǐmáo 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (be burdensome) «fear, memory» 重压 zhòngyā the guilt weighed heavily 心里感到深深的内疚 to weigh on [somebody's] conscience 使某人良心不安 
② (have influence) «argument, evidence» 有影响 yǒu yǐngxiǎng to weigh heavily/very little with [somebody] 对某人影响很大/很小 to weigh in [somebody's]/[something]'s favour 对某人/某事物有利 PHRASAL VERBS weigh down transitive verb[weigh somebody/something down], [weigh down somebody/something] 
① (be heavy on) 压得…难以移动 yā de… nányǐ yídòng ‹person, vehicle, boat›; 压弯 yāwān ‹branch, tree›
② (oppress) «debt, work» 使…心情沉重 shǐ… xīnqíng chénzhòng ‹person›to be weighed down with anxiety 忧心忡忡 weigh in intransitive verb 
① Sport «jockey, boxer» 赛前称体重 sài qián chēng tǐzhòng he weighed in at 60kg 他在赛前所称的体重为60公斤 
② colloquial (intervene with opinion) 发表有分量的意见 fābiǎo yǒu fènliàng de yìjiàn to weigh in with [something]; 发表 ‹opinion› 提出 tíchū ‹suggestion, criticism›
③ colloquial (contribute with help) 参与帮助 cānyù bāngzhù to weigh in with; 提供 ‹money, aid›weigh out transitive verb[weigh something out], [weigh out something] 称出 chēngchū ‹ingredients, quantity›weigh up transitive verb[weigh somebody/something up], [weigh up somebody/something] 掂量 diānliang ‹opponent, prospects›after weighing things up, I decided to hand in my resignation 经过仔细权衡，我决定递交辞呈 
weigh
1 
wā

▶verb
1 [with object] find out how heavy (someone or something) is, typically using scales: weigh yourself on the day you begin the diet 
the vendor weighed the vegetables. 
• have a specified weight: when the twins were born, they weighed ten pounds. 
• balance in the hands to guess or as if to guess the weight of: she picked up the brick and weighed it in her right hand. 
• (weigh something out) measure and take from a larger quantity of a substance a portion of a particular weight: she weighed out two ounces of loose tobacco. 
• [no object] (weigh on) be depressing or burdensome to: his unhappiness would weigh on my mind so much.
2 assess the nature or importance of, especially with a view to a decision or action: the consequences of the move would need to be very carefully weighed. 
• (weigh something against) compare the importance of one factor with that of (another): they need to weigh benefit against risk. 
• [no object] influence a decision or action; be considered important: the evidence weighed heavily against him. 
PHRASES
weigh anchor see anchor. weigh one's words carefully choose the way one expresses something.PHRASAL VERBS weigh someone down be heavy and cumbersome to someone: my waders and fishing gear weighed me down. 
• be oppressive or burdensome to someone: she was weighed down by the responsibility of looking after her sisters. weigh in (chiefly of a boxer or jockey) be officially weighed before or after a contest: Mason weighed in at 203 lb. weigh in at informal be of (a specified weight). 
• informal cost (a specified amount). weigh in with informal make a forceful contribution to a competition or argument by means of: Baker weighed in with a three-pointer. weigh into informal join in forcefully or enthusiastically: they weighed into the election campaign. 
• attack physically or verbally: he weighed into the companies for their high costs. weigh out (of a jockey) be weighed before a race. weigh someone/something up British carefully assess someone or something: investors weighed up their next move.DERIVATIVES weighable 
ˈwāəb(ə)l 
adjective. weigher 
ˈwāər 
nounORIGIN Old English wegan, of Germanic origin; related to wagon and wain, and to Dutch wegen ‘weigh,’ German bewegen ‘move,’ from an Indo-European root shared by Latin vehere ‘convey.’ Early senses included ‘transport from one place to another’ and ‘raise up.’
