weight 
BrE weɪt, AmE weɪt 

A.  noun 
① Countable and uncountable(measure of heaviness) (of person) 体重 tǐzhòng (of objects) 重量 zhòngliàng to be the same weight 重量相同 by weight 按重量 → gold 
A. 
① 
② Uncountable(heaviness) 重 zhòng under the weight (of [somebody]/[something]) 在（某人/某物的）重压之下 to take the weight off one's feet colloquial 坐下歇歇脚 
③ Countable(heavy object) 重物 zhòngwù what a weight! 好重的东西！ 
④ Countable(immobilizing object) [起推动或固定作用的] 重体 zhòngtǐ weights on a fishing line 钓线上的坠 to stop the machine and adjust its weights 把机器停下来调整一下压铁 
⑤ Countable(burden) 负担 fùdān to be a weight off one's mind or shoulders 如释重负 
⑥ Uncountable(influence) 影响 yǐngxiǎng to carry weight (with [somebody]/[something]) （对某人/某事物）有影响 what she says carries weight 她所说的话有分量 to add or give or lend weight to [something] 增加某事物的影响力 to throw or put one's weight behind [somebody]/[something] 鼎力支持某人/某事物 
⑦ Uncountable(importance) 重要性 zhòngyàoxìng (preponderance) 分量 fènliàng to give or attach weight to [something] 重视某事物 the weight of evidence against her is overwhelming 对她不利的证据无可辩驳 the sheer weight of medical opinion 医生意见的绝对重要性 (sheer) weight of numbers （纯粹的）人多势众 
⑧ Countable(unit for weighing) 重量单位 zhòngliàng dānwèi weights and measures 度量衡 
⑨ Uncountable(system for weighing) 衡制 héng zhì imperial/metric weight 英制/公制重量 
⑩ Countable(piece of metal for weighing) 砝码 fǎmǎ a set of weights 一组砝码 
⑪ Countable(used in exercising) (dumbbell) 哑铃 yǎlíng (barbell) 杠铃 gànglíng (disc) 杠铃片 gànglíngpiàn to lift weights (dumbbells) 举哑铃 (barbells) 举杠铃 
⑫ CountableSport (in shot-put) 铅球 qiānqiú 
B.  transitive verb 
① (make heavier) 增加…的重量 zēngjiā… de zhòngliàng ‹line, dart, hem›the fishing nets are weighted with lead 渔网是用铅坠下沉的 
② (give importance to) 使…加权 shǐ… jiāquán ‹factor, index, variable›a weighted vote 加权选票 a weighted grade AmE 加权分数 
③ (bias) 使…有倾向 shǐ… yǒu qīngxiàng ‹evidence, argument›to weight [something] against/in favour of or towards [somebody]/[something]; 使某事物对某人/某事物不利/有利 PHRASAL VERB weight down transitive verb[weight somebody/something down], [weight down somebody/something] 用重物压住 yòng zhòngwù yāzhù ‹groundsheet, tarpaulin, covering›
weight 
wāt

▶noun
1 a body's relative mass or the quantity of matter contained by it, giving rise to a downward force; the heaviness of a person or thing: he was at least 175 pounds in weight. 
• Physics the force exerted on the mass of a body by a gravitational field. Compare with mass. 
• the quality of being heavy: as he came upstairs the boards creaked under his weight. 
• a unit or system of units used for expressing how much an object or quantity of matter weighs. 
• a piece of metal known to weigh a definite amount and used on scales to determine how heavy an object or quantity of a substance is. 
• the amount that a jockey is expected or required to weigh, or the amount that a horse can easily carry. 
• the surface density of cloth, used as a measure of its quality.
2 a heavy object, especially one being lifted or carried. 
• a heavy object used to give an impulse or act as a counterweight in a mechanism. 
• a heavy object propelled by a shot-putter. 
• (weights) blocks or discs of metal or other heavy material used in weightlifting or weight training.
3 the ability of someone or something to influence decisions or actions: a recommendation by the committee will carry great weight. 
• the importance attached to something: individuals differ in the weight they attach to various aspects of a job. 
• Statistics a factor associated with one of a set of numerical quantities, used to represent its importance relative to the other members of the set. 
▶verb [with object]
1 hold (something) down by placing a heavy object on top of it: a mug half filled with coffee weighted down a stack of papers. 
• make (something) heavier by attaching a heavy object to it, especially so as to make it stay in place: the jugs were covered with muslin veils weighted with colored beads.
2 attach importance or value to: speaking, reading, and writing should be weighted equally in the assessment. 
• (be weighted) be planned or arranged so as to put a specified person, group, or factor in a position of advantage or disadvantage: the balance of power is weighted in favor of the government. 
• Statistics multiply the components of (an average) by factors to take account of their importance.
3 assign a handicap weight to (a horse).
4 treat (a fabric) with a substance to make it seem thicker and heavier. 
PHRASES
put on (or lose) weight become fatter (or thinner). throw one's weight around informal be unpleasantly self-assertive.throw one's weight behind informal use one's influence to help support. the weight of the world used in reference to a very heavy burden of worry or responsibility: he continues to carry the weight of the world on his shoulders. be a weight off one's mind come as a great relief after one has been worried. worth one's weight in gold (of a person) exceedingly useful or helpful.ORIGIN Old English (ge)wiht, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch wicht and German Gewicht. The form of the word has been influenced by weigh1 .
