welcome 
BrE ˈwɛlkəm, AmE ˈwɛlkəm 

A.  noun 
① Countable and uncountable(greeting) 欢迎 huānyíng to give [somebody] a warm welcome 热烈欢迎某人 to bid [somebody] welcome, to extend a welcome to [somebody] formal 向某人表示欢迎 a welcome speech 欢迎辞 
② Countable(reaction) 反响 fǎnxiǎng they gave the news a guarded welcome 他们对那条新闻反应谨慎 
B.  adjective 
① (much appreciated) 受欢迎的 shòu huānyíng de ‹news, guest, gift›the fine weather made a welcome change 天气转好，令人心旷神怡 to make [somebody] feel welcome 使某人感到受欢迎 
② especially AmE (acknowledging thanks) you're welcome 不用谢 bùyòng xiè 
③ colloquial (free) 可随意的 kě suíyì de you're welcome to use the phone 你可以随意使用电话 
④ colloquial (allowed to have) 尽管…好了 jǐnguǎn… hǎo le if you want to finish my fries, you're welcome to them 如果你想吃完我的炸薯条，你尽管吃好了 
C.  exclamation 欢迎 huānyíng welcome on board or aboard! (on boat) 欢迎上船！ (on plane) 欢迎登机！ welcome to the Town Hall! 欢迎来到市政厅！ 
D.  transitive verb 
① (greet) 欢迎 huānyíng ‹visitor, guest›to welcome [somebody] to [something]; 欢迎某人到某处 to welcome [somebody] with open arms 热情地欢迎某人 
② (appreciate) 乐于接受 lè yú jiēshòu ‹criticism, donation, application›I'd welcome a hot drink 我想来一杯热饮 
③ (approve of) 赞同 zàntóng ‹decision, change›PHRASAL VERBS welcome back transitive verb[welcome somebody back], [welcome back somebody] 欢迎…回来 huānyíng… huílai welcome in transitive verb[welcome somebody in], [welcome in somebody] 欢迎…进来 huānyíng… jìnlai 
welcome 
ˈwelkəm

▶noun an instance or manner of greeting someone: you will receive a warm welcome 
he went to meet them with his hand stretched out in welcome. 
▶exclam. used to greet someone in a glad or friendly way: welcome to the Wildlife Park. 
▶verb [with object] greet (someone arriving) in a glad, polite, or friendly way: hotels should welcome guests in their own language 
(as adjective welcoming) : a welcoming smile. 
• be glad to entertain (someone) or receive (something): we welcome any comments. 
• react with pleasure or approval to (an event or development): the bank's decision to cut its rates was widely welcomed. 
▶adjective (of a guest or new arrival) gladly received: visitors with disabilities are always welcome. 
• very pleasing because much needed or desired: after your walk, the cafe serves a welcome pot of coffee 
deregulation is welcome to consumers. 
• [predicative, with infinitive] allowed or invited to do a specified thing: anyone is welcome to join them at their midday meal. 
• [predicative] (welcome to) used to indicate that one is relieved to be relinquishing the control or possession of something to another: the job is all yours and you're welcome to it! 
PHRASES
make someone welcome receive and treat someone hospitably. wear out (or overstay or outstay) one's welcome stay as a visitor longer than one is wanted. you're welcome used as a polite response to thanks.DERIVATIVES welcomely adverb. welcomeness 
ˈwelkəmnəs 
noun. welcomer 
ˈwelkəmər 
noun. welcomingly adverbORIGIN Old English wilcuma ‘a person whose coming is pleasing,’ wilcumian (verb), from wil- ‘desire, pleasure’ + cuman ‘come’ The first element was later changed to wel- ‘well,’ influenced by Old French bien venu or Old Norse velkominn .
