west 
BrE wɛst, AmE wɛst 

A.  nounUncountable
① (direction) 西 xī (position or location) 西方 xīfāng (western part) 西部 xībù 
② Politics, Geography the West 西方国家 xīfāng guójiā 
③ History (western Europe) 西欧 Xī Ōu 
④ Geography (western USA) the West 美国西部地区 Měiguó xībù dìqū out West; 在遥远的西方 zài yáoyuǎn de xīfāng 
⑤ Geography (western Britain) the West 英国西部地区 Yīngguó xībù dìqū 
⑥ History (west Berlin) the West 西柏林 Xī Bólín (west Germany) 西德 Xī Dé 
⑦ Games 坐在西首位置的人 zuò zài xī shǒu wèizhì de rén 
B.  adjective 
① (western) 西边的 xībian de on the west side of the island 在岛屿的西侧 
② attributive (from the west) 来自西边的 láizì xībian de a west wind 西风 
C.  adverb 
① (to the west, on the western side) 在西边 zài xībian west of [something] 在某物的西边 
② (towards the west) 向西 xiàng xī due west 向正西 to go west colloquial BrE (be killed) 被杀死 (be lost) 丢失 (meet with disaster) 遭殃 
west 
west

▶noun (usually the west)
1 the direction toward the point of the horizon where the sun sets at the equinoxes, on the left-hand side of a person facing north, or the part of the horizon lying in this direction: the evening sun glowed from the west 
a patrol aimed to create a diversion to the west of the city. 
• the compass point corresponding to this.
2 the western part of the world or of a specified country, region, or town: it will become windy in the west. 
• (usually the West) Europe and its culture seen in contrast to other civilizations. 
• (usually the West) historical the noncommunist states of Europe and North America, contrasted with the former communist states of eastern Europe. 
• (usually the West) the western part of the US, especially the states west of the Mississippi.
3 [as name] (West) Bridge the player sitting to the right of North and partnering East. 
▶adjective
1 [attributive] lying toward, near, or facing the west: the west coast. 
• (of a wind) blowing from the west.
2 of or denoting the western part of a specified area, city, or country or its inhabitants: West Africa. 
▶adverb to or toward the west: he faced west and watched the sunset 
the accident happened a mile west of Bowes. ORIGIN Old English, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch and German west, from an Indo-European root shared by Greek hesperos,Latin vesper ‘evening.’
