wet 
BrE wɛt, AmE wɛt 

A.  adjective 
① (covered or soaked with liquid, esp water) 湿的 shī de you'll get wet if you go out now 你现在出去会被淋湿的 her face was wet with tears 她泪流满面 to get [something] wet; 把…弄湿 bǎ… nòngshī ‹floor, towel›to be or get wet through 湿透 to be all wet AmE colloquial «person, theory» 大错特错 → ear 
② (rainy) 有雨的 yǒu yǔ de wet weather/day 多雨的天气/下雨天 tomorrow, the North will be wet 明天北部有雨 
③ (freshly applied) 未干的 wèi gān de ‹varnish, cement, ink›‘wet paint’ “油漆未干” 
④ (soaked with urine) 尿湿的 niào shī de ‹bottom, nappy›
⑤ BrE colloquial pejorative (wimpish) 窝囊的 wōnang de 
⑥ BrE Politics colloquial pejorative 保守中庸的 bǎoshǒu zhōngyōng de ‹minister›
⑦ colloquial (allowing sale of alcohol) 不禁酒的 bù jīn jiǔ de ‹state, country›
B.  transitive verb(present participle -tt-; past tense, past participle wet or wetted) 
① (soak with liquid) 把…弄湿 bǎ… nòngshī the shower was barely sufficient to wet the pavement 那场阵雨连人行道都没淋湿 
② (soak with urine) 尿湿 niào shī ‹nappy›to wet the bed 尿床 to wet one's pants 尿裤子 niào kùzi 
C.  reflexive verb (present participle -tt-; past tense, past participle wet or wetted) to wet oneself 尿裤子 niào kùzi 
D.  noun 
① Uncountable(rainy weather) the wet 雨天 yǔtiān in the wet 在雨天 zài yǔtiān don't go out in the wet 雨天别出门 yǔtiān bié chūmén 
② Uncountable(liquid) 液体 yètǐ [尤指水]
③ Countable BrE colloquial pejorative (wimp) 窝囊废 wōnangfèi pejorative 
④ Countable BrE dated colloquial pejorative (politician) 保守中庸的政客 bǎoshǒu zhōngyōng de zhèngkè 
wet 
wet

▶adjective (wetter, wettest)
1 covered or saturated with water or another liquid: she followed, slipping on the wet rock. 
• (of the weather) rainy: a wet, windy evening. 
• (of paint, ink, plaster, or a similar substance) not yet having dried or hardened. 
• (of a baby or young child) having urinated in its diaper or underwear. 
• involving the use of water or liquid: wet methods of photography.
2 informal (of a country or region or of its legislation) allowing the sale of alcoholic beverages. 
• (of a person) addicted to alcohol.
3 British informal showing a lack of forcefulness or strength of character; feeble: they thought the cadets were a bit wet. 
▶verb (wets, wetting; past and past participle wet or wetted) [with object] cover or touch with liquid; moisten: he wet a finger and flicked through the pages 
(as noun wetting) : the wetting caused an aggravation of his gout. 
• (especially of a baby or young child) urinate in or on: the child wet the bed. 
• (wet oneself) urinate involuntarily. 
▶noun
1 liquid that makes something damp: I could feel the wet of his tears. 
• (the wet) rainy weather: the race was held in the wet. 
• US a person opposed to the prohibition of alcoholic beverages.
2 British informal a person lacking forcefulness or strength of character. 
PHRASES
all wet North American completely wrong. wet behind the ears informal lacking experience; immature. wet through (or to the skin) with one's clothes soaked; completely drenched.wet one's whistle informal have a drink.DERIVATIVES wetly 
ˈwetlē 
adverb. wettable 
ˈwedəb(ə)l 
adjective. wettish adjectiveORIGIN Old English wǣt (adjective and noun), wǣtan (verb); related to water .
