whatever 
BrE wɒtˈɛvə, AmE (h)wətˈɛvər 

A.  pronoun 
① (anything that) 任何事物 rènhé shìwù whatever you say 随你怎么说 whatever he says goes 他说了算 to do whatever is required 一切按要求的做 to do whatever one likes 喜欢做什么就做什么 
② (no matter what) 无论什么 wúlùn shénme whatever happens 不管发生什么 whatever the reasons 无论理由如何 whatever I do, it's wrong 我无论做什么都是错的 whatever it costs, it doesn't matter 无论花多少钱都不要紧 whatever you do (as warning) 无论如何 wúlùnrúhé don’t tell him, whatever you do! 无论如何都不要告诉他！ 
③ (what on earth) 到底是什么 dàodǐ shì shénme whatever do you mean? 你到底什么意思？ whatever's the matter? 究竟是怎么回事？ let's go — whatever for? 咱们走吧──究竟为什么？ whatever next? 接下来到底还有什么？ 
④ colloquial (the like) 诸如此类的东西 zhūrúcǐlèi de dōngxi you add it or subtract it or whatever 你把它加上或减去或别的什么 go to the cinema or whatever 去电影院或类似的地方 curtains, cushions, and whatever (in series) 窗帘、垫子等等 
⑤ colloquial (expressing no preference) 什么都可以 shénme dōu kěyǐ I'll call you — whatever 我给你打电话──随你的便 what do you want to do? — whatever 你想做什么呢？──无所谓 
B.  determiner 
① (any) 任何的 rènhé de whatever hope he once had 他曾经有过的任何希望 they eat whatever food they can get 他们找到什么食物就吃什么 
② (no matter what) 无论什么的 wúlùn shénme de for whatever reason 无论出于什么原因 whatever decision he makes 无论他做出什么决定 
③ (what/who on earth) 究竟什么的 jiūjìng shénme de whatever idiot forgot the key? 究竟哪个傻瓜把钥匙给忘了？ 
C.  adverb 
① (at all) 丝毫 sīháo nothing whatever 什么都没有 there's no evidence whatever 什么证据都没有 to have no doubt whatever 毫不怀疑 is there any possibility whatever that you can come? 你究竟有没有一丝可能会来？ any chance? — none whatever 有机会吗？──丝毫没有 
② colloquial (no matter what) 无论如何 wúlùnrúhé we’d back him whatever 我们无论如何都会支持他 
whatever 
(h)wətˈevər

▶rel. pronoun & det. used to emphasize a lack of restriction in referring to any thing or amount, no matter what: [as pronoun] : do whatever you like 
[as determiner] : take whatever action is needed. 
• regardless of what: [as pronoun] : you have our support, whatever you decide 
[as determiner] : whatever decision he made I would support it. 
▶pronoun used for emphasis instead of “what” in questions, typically expressing surprise or confusion: whatever is the matter? 
▶adverb
1 [with negative] at all; of any kind (used for emphasis): they received no help whatever.
2 informal no matter what happens: we told him we'd back him whatever. 
▶exclam. informal said as a response indicating a reluctance to discuss something, implying indifference, skepticism, or exasperation: Joseph's commentary amounted to “Yeah, well. Whatever.” 
PHRASES
or whatever informal or anything similar: use chopped herbs, nuts, garlic, or whatever. whatever next see next. usage: In the sentence I will do whatever you ask of me (in which whatever = anything), whatever is correctly spelled as one word. But in the interrogative sense ( what ever was Mary thinking?), the emphasis is on ever, and it should be spelled as the two words what ever because ever is serving as an intensifier to the pronoun what. See also usage at however and wherever .
