wheel 
BrE wiːl, AmE (h)wil 

A.  noun 
① (on vehicle, bicycle, cart, etc.) 车轮 chēlún (on roller skate, furniture) 轮子 lúnzi a front/rear or back wheel 前轮/后轮 to reinvent the wheel 重新发明轮子 ［指无谓地重复］a journey on wheels (by car) 开车出行 (by bicycle) 骑车出行 
② (for steering) Auto 方向盘 fāngxiàngpán Nautical 舵轮 duòlún to be at or behind the wheel 在驾驶 to fall asleep at the wheel 开车时睡着 to take the wheel 开车 kāichē 
③ (for spinning) 纺车 fǎngchē (for pottery making) 陶轮 táolún (as part of machine) 机轮 jīlún (in watch, mechanism) 飞轮 fēilún gear wheels 齿轮 the wheels of government 复杂的政府机构 to set the wheels in motion figurative 启动 to keep the wheels turning figurative 保持运转 wheels within wheels 盘根错节 to oil or grease the wheels (of [something]) figurative 使某事物顺利运行 
④ History (instrument of torture) 轮式刑车 lúnshì xíngchē to break [somebody] on the wheel 判处某人车裂之刑 
⑤ (for roulette) 轮盘 lúnpán 
⑥ figurative (cycle, process) [不可抗拒的] 轮转 lúnzhuàn the wheel(s) of fate 命运之轮 
⑦ (act of turning) 急转弯 jízhuǎnwān 
⑧ (disc) 轮状物 lúnzhuàngwù [尤指浅圆形奶酪]
⑨ AmE colloquial (important person) 大亨 dàhēng 
⑩ wheels plural colloquial 汽车 qìchē to be on wheels 开车 kāichē are these your new wheels? 这是你的新车吗？ 
B.  transitive verb 
① (push on wheels) 推动 tuīdòng ‹bicycle, wheelbarrow›
② (carry on wheels) 用车推 yòng chē tuī ‹baby, invalid›
C.  intransitive verb 
① (move in circle) «bird, aircraft» 盘旋 pánxuán to wheel and deal colloquial 玩弄手段 
② Military (turn sharply) «soldier, regiment» 急转 jí zhuǎn to wheel to the right 向右急转 
D.  -wheeled combining form 有…轮子的 yǒu… lúnzi de a three/fourwheel vehicle 三/四轮车 PHRASAL VERBS wheel in transitive verb[wheel somebody/something in], [wheel in somebody/something] 
① literal (push or carry on wheels) 把…推进去 bǎ… tuī jìnqu ‹bicycle, wheelchair›; 用车把…推进去 yòng chē bǎ… tuī jìnqu ‹patient›
② figurative colloquial (introduce) 挥手请进 huīshǒu qǐng jìn ‹interviewee, contestant›wheel out transitive verb[wheel somebody/something out], [wheel out somebody/something] 
① (push or carry on wheels) 把…推出去 bǎ… tuī chūqu ‹bicycle, wheelchair›; 用车把…推出去 yòng chē bǎ… tuī chūqu ‹patient›
② figurative colloquial (bring out) 重复提出 chóngfù tíchū ‹idea, project›; 一成不变地推出 yī chéng bù biàn de tuīchū ‹new model›they always wheel him out to deal with the press 他们总是把他推出去应付新闻界 wheel round intransitive verb 急转 jí zhuǎn 
wheel 
(h)wēl

▶noun
1 a circular object that revolves on an axle and is fixed below a vehicle or other object to enable it to move easily over the ground. 
• a circular object that revolves on an axle and forms part of a machine. 
• (the wheel) used in reference to the cycle of a specified condition or set of events: the final release from the wheel of life. 
• (the wheel) historical a large wheel used as an instrument of punishment or torture, especially by binding someone to it and breaking their limbs: a man sentenced to be broken on the wheel.
2 a machine or structure having a wheel as its essential part. 
• (the wheel) a steering wheel (used in reference to driving or steering a vehicle or vessel): his crew knows when he wants to take the wheel. 
• a vessel's propeller or paddle-wheel. 
• a device with a revolving disk or drum used in various games of chance. 
• a system, or a part of a system, regarded as a relentlessly moving machine: the wheels of justice.
3 (wheels) informal a car: she's got wheels now. 
• a bicycle.
4 a thing resembling a wheel in form or function, in particular a cheese made in the form of a disk.
5 an instance of wheeling; a turn or rotation. 
▶verb
1 [with object] push or pull (a vehicle with wheels): the sled was wheeled out to the flight deck. 
• carry (someone or something) in or on a vehicle with wheels: a young woman is wheeled into the operating room. 
• (wheel something in/on/out) informal produce something that is unimpressive because it has been frequently seen or heard before: the old journalistic arguments have to be wheeled out.
2 [no object] (of a bird or aircraft) fly in a wide circle or curve: the birds wheeled and dived. 
• turn around quickly so as to face another way: Robert wheeled around to see the face of Mr. Mafouz. 
• turn or seem to turn on an axis or pivot: the stars wheeled through the sky. 
PHRASES
grease (or British oil) the wheels help something go smoothly: the money is inadequate to grease the wheels of recovery. on wheels
1 by, or traveling by, car or bicycle: a journey on wheels. 
• (of a service) brought to one's home or district; mobile.
2 informal used to emphasize one's distaste or dislike of the person or thing mentioned: she was a bitch on wheels. wheel and deal engage in commercial or political scheming, especially unscrupulously: (as noun wheeling and dealing) : the wheeling and dealing of the Wall Street boom years. the wheel of Fortune the wheel that the deity Fortune is fabled to turn as a symbol of random luck or change. wheels within wheels used to indicate that a situation is complicated and affected by secret or indirect influences.DERIVATIVES wheelless adjectiveORIGIN Old English hwēol (noun), of Germanic origin, from an Indo-European root shared by Sanskrit cakra ‘wheel, circle’ and Greek kuklos ‘circle.’
