which 
BrE wɪtʃ, AmE (h)wɪtʃ 

A.  pronoun 
① which (one) (what one) 哪一个 (what ones) 哪一些 nǎ yīxiē I know which ones you'd like 我知道你想要哪一些 which is the shortest route? 哪条路最近？ which do you want, the red one or the blue one? 你想要哪一个，红的还是蓝的？ which of you did this? 你们谁干的？ which is which? (thing) 哪个是哪个？ (person) 谁是谁？ 
② (specifying preceding noun) …的那个 … de nàge the painting which hangs in the sitting room 挂在客厅里的那幅画 the contract which he's spoken about or about which he's spoken 他谈到的那份合同 
③ (adding to preceding clause) 这个 zhège …, which reminds me … 这使我想起… we'll be moving, before which we need to … 我们要搬迁了，在这之前我们需要… his movie, which won several awards, is based on real life events 他的影片是根据真实事件拍摄的，获过数个奖项 he said he hadn't done it, which he can't prove 他说他没干那事，但他没法证明 
B.  determiner 
① (in questions) (referring to one) 哪个 nǎge (referring to several) 哪些 nǎxiē which way is the wind blowing? 风是朝哪个方向刮的？ which books? 哪些书？ which one of the children? 哪个孩子？ 
② (in relative clauses) 那个 nàge in which case 在那种情况下 he left, during which time no one spoke 他离开了，其间没有一个人说话 he failed to apologize, for which mistake he paid dearly formal 他没有道歉，因为这个过失他付出了沉重的代价 
which 
(h)wiCH

▶interrog. pronoun & det. asking for information specifying one or more people or things from a definite set: [as pronoun] : which are the best varieties of grapes for long keeping? 
which of the suspects murdered him? 
[as determiner] : which way is the wind blowing? 
▶rel. pronoun & det. used referring to something previously mentioned when introducing a clause giving further information: [as pronoun] : a conference in Vienna, which ended on Friday 
[after preposition] : it was a crisis for which he was totally unprepared 
[as determiner, after preposition] : your claim ought to succeed, in which case the damages will be substantial. 
PHRASES
which is which used when two or more people or things are difficult to distinguish from each other: there is no confusion as to which is which.ORIGIN Old English hwilc, from the Germanic bases of who and alike . usage: In US English, it is usually recommended that which be employed only for nonrestrictive (or nonessential) clauses: the horse, which is in the paddock, is six years old (the which clause contains a nonessential fact, noted in passing; the horse would be six years old wherever it was). A that clause is restrictive (or essential), as it identifies a particular thing: the horse that is in the paddock is six years old (not any horse, but the one in the paddock). See also usage at restrictive and that .
