while 
BrE wʌɪl, AmE (h)waɪl 

A.  conjunction 
① (during the time that) 在…期间 zài… qījiān he came while I was on the phone 我打电话时他来了 while in Spain I visited Madrid 我在西班牙时去了马德里 while doing [something]; 在做某事时 to collapse while mowing the lawn 在修剪草坪时晕倒 
② (at the same time as) 与…同时 yǔ… tóngshí wait while I speak to him 我和他说会儿话，你等一下 ‘heels repaired while you wait’ “修鞋跟，立等可取” to eliminate draughts while allowing air to circulate 在让空气流通的同时避免穿堂风 close the door while you're at it 你顺手关上门吧 
③ (as long as) 只要 zhǐyào while there's life there's hope proverb 有生命就有希望 
④ (whereas) 然而 rán'ér (but) 可是 kěshì one person wants to go, while the other wants to stay 一个人想走，而另一个却想留下 it's cold here, while in Scotland it's even colder 这里很冷，可苏格兰天气更冷 
⑤ (although) 尽管 jǐnguǎn while the house is big, it is not in a very good state 尽管房子大，但状况不是很好 the peaches, while ripe, didn't taste of much 这些桃子虽然熟了，但没有什么味道 
B.  noun 一段时间 yī duàn shíjiān a while ago or back colloquial 不久前 a good or long while ago/later 很久以前/以后 a short or little while ago/later 不久前/以后 a short or little while longer 再一会儿 to talk for a while longer 又谈一会儿 to chat for a (short) while 聊一（小）会儿 after a while 过了一会儿 in a while 一些时间以后 all the while or the whole while, he was cheating on her 他一直对她不忠 to be a while (doing [something]) （做某事）花相当长的时间 to take a while (to do [something]) （做某事）要花相当长的时间 (every) once in a while 偶尔 in between whiles 间或 PHRASAL VERB while away transitive verb[while something away], [while away something] 消磨 xiāomó ‹day, evening, hours›to while away the time/morning/afternoon reading and playing cards 靠看书和玩纸牌消磨时间/这个早上/这个下午 
while 
(h)wīl

▶noun
1 a period of time: we chatted for a while 
she retired a little while ago. 
• (a while) for some time: can I keep it a while?
2 (the while) at the same time; meanwhile: he starts to draw, talking the while. 
• literary during the time that: beseeching him, the while his hand she wrung. 
▶conjunction
1 during the time that; at the same time as: nothing much changed while he was away.
2 whereas (indicating a contrast): one person wants out, while the other wants the relationship to continue. 
• in spite of the fact that; although: while I wouldn't recommend a nighttime visit, by day the area is full of interest. 
▶rel. adverb during which: the period while the animal remains alive. 
▶verb [with object] (while something away) pass time in a leisurely manner: a diversion to while away the long afternoons. 
PHRASES
between whiles archaic at intervals: add potassium carbonate, shaking vigorously between whiles. worth one's while worth the time or effort spent.ORIGIN Old English hwīl ‘period of time,’ of Germanic origin; related to Dutch wijl,German Weile; the conjunction is an abbreviation of Old English thā hwīle the ‘the while that.’ usage:
1 While is sometimes used, without causing any misunderstandings, in the sense of whereas (‘although,’ ‘by contrast,’ ‘in comparison with the fact that’). This usage is frowned on by some traditionalists, but while is sometimes preferable, as in contexts in which whereas might sound inappropriately formal: while you say you like her, you've never stood up for her. Whereas is preferable, however, for preventing ambiguity in contexts in which while might be read as referring to time, or might falsely suggest simultaneity: whereas Burton promised to begin at once, he was delayed nine months for lack of funding; whereas Jonas was an excellent planter and cultivator, Julius was a master harvester.
2 On the distinction between awhile and a while, see usage at awhile.3 On the distinction between worth while and worthwhile, see usage at worthwhile .
