whip 
BrE wɪp, AmE (h)wɪp 
→ three-line whip 
A.  noun 
① Countable(implement) 鞭子 biānzi to strike or lash [somebody] with a whip 用鞭子抽打某人 
② CountablePolitics (official) 组织秘书 zǔzhī mìshū [亦称党鞭]
③ Countable BrE Politics (request to attend vote) （出席投票）书面通知 (chūxí tóupiào)shūmiàn tōngzhī the whip 执政党议员资格 to resign the party whip 退出执政党 a one-line/two-line/three-line whip 紧急/十分紧急/特急出席通知 
④ Countable and uncountableCulinary 搅打奶油甜食 jiǎodǎ nǎiyóu tiánshí 
B.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -pp-) 
① (lash) 抽打 chōudǎ to whip [somebody] to death 把某人抽打致死 the wind whipped the flames higher and higher 风把火焰越吹越高 
② Culinary (beat) 搅打 jiǎodǎ ‹batter, cream›
③ figurative (stir) 煽动 shāndòng he whipped his audience into a frenzy 他把观众的情绪煽动得狂热起来 
④ figurative colloquial (defeat) 把…打得一败涂地 bǎ… dǎ de yī bài tú dì ‹opponent, group›
⑤ colloquial (remove quickly) 猛地挪动 měng de nuódòng she whipped the plates off the table 她一下子把盘子从桌上拿走了 I whipped the key out of his hand 我从他手中一把抢过钥匙 
⑥ BrE colloquial (steal) 偷走 tōuzǒu 
⑦ (stop from fraying) (with twine) 缠在…的梢上 chán zài… de shāo shang ‹rope›(with overcast stitches) 锁…的边 suǒ… de biān ‹fabric, seam›
C.  intransitive verb(present participle etc. -pp-) 
① (lash) «rope, tail» 挥动 huīdòng the branches were whipping in the wind 枝条在风中摇曳 the wind whipped across the open spaces 风呼呼地吹过空旷之处 
② colloquial (move fast) «person» 快速移动 kuàisù yídòng I'll just whip over or round to my sister's 我正要赶到我姐姐家去 to whip round; 猛地转身 to whip through [something]; 匆匆做 cōngcōng zuò ‹work› 匆匆浏览 cōngcōng liúlǎn ‹book›PHRASAL VERBS whip away transitive verb[whip something away], [whip away something] 一下子移走 yīxiàzi yízǒu ‹plate, book›the wind whipped my hat away 风猛地吹走了我的帽子 whip back 
A.  intransitive verb «branch, rope» 弹回来 tán huílai 
B.  transitive verb[whip something back], [whip back something] colloquial 一把抢回 yī bǎ qiǎnghuí whip off transitive verb[whip something off], [whip off something] colloquial 一把脱下 yī bǎ tuōxia ‹garment›whip on transitive verb[whip something on], [whip on something] 
① (urge on) 用鞭子催促 yòng biānzi cuīcù ‹horse, team›
② colloquial (put on quickly) 匆忙穿戴好 cōngmáng chuāndài hǎo whip out colloquial 
A.  intransitive verb 急冲出去 jí chōng chuqu 
B.  transitive verb[whip something out], [whip out something] 迅速拿出 xùnsù náchū the man whipped out a knife 那个男子嗖地掏出一把刀 he whipped the gun out from its holster 他嗖地从枪套中拔出枪 whip up 
A.  [whip something up], [whip up something] transitive verb 
① Culinary 搅打…成糊状 jiǎodǎ… chéng húzhuàng ‹eggs, batter›
② colloquial (produce quickly) 匆匆做 cōngcōng zuò ‹meal, snack›; 匆匆作 cōngcōng zuò ‹report›
③ (incite) 激起 jīqǐ ‹enthusiasm, hatred, unrest›
④ (cause to rise up and blow around) «wind» 卷起 juǎnqǐ ‹dust, sand›
B.  [whip somebody up], [whip up somebody] transitive verb 煽动 shāndòng his speech whipped the crowd up into a frenzy 他的演讲把人群煽动得狂热起来 
whip 
(h)wip

▶noun
1 a strip of leather or length of cord fastened to a handle, used for flogging or beating a person or for urging on an animal. 
• a blow with a whip or similar implement. 
• used to refer to something causing pain or acting as a stimulus to action: councils are attempting to find new sites under the whip of a powerful agency 
the governor cracked the whip in the city.
2 something resembling a whip in form: a licorice whip. 
• a slender, unbranched shoot or plant. 
• short for whip antenna.
3 an official of a political party appointed to maintain discipline among its members in Congress or Parliament, especially so as to ensure attendance and voting in debates. 
• British a written notice from a political party official requesting attendance for voting. 
• (the whip) British party membership of a Member of Parliament or other elected body: he asked for the whip to be withdrawn from them.
4 a dessert consisting of cream or eggs beaten into a light fluffy mass with fruit, chocolate, or other ingredients. 
• a utensil such as a whisk or an eggbeater for beating cream, eggs, or other food.
5 short for whipper-in.
6 [with modifier] North American a scythe for cutting specified crops: a grass whip.
7 a rope-and-pulley hoisting apparatus.
8 US informal a car: I just got new wheels for my whip. 
▶verb (whips, whipping, whipped) [with object]
1 beat (a person or animal) with a whip or similar instrument, especially as a punishment or to urge them on. 
• (of a flexible object or rain or wind) strike or beat violently: the wind whipped their faces 
[no object] : ferns and brambles whipped at him. 
• beat (cream, eggs, or other food) into a froth. 
• informal (of a player or team) defeat (a person or team) heavily in a sporting contest.
2 [no object] move fast or suddenly in a specified direction: I whipped around the corner. 
• [with object] take out or move (something) fast or suddenly: he whipped out his revolver and shot him.
3 bind (something) with spirally wound twine. 
• sew or gather (something) with overcast stitches. 
PHRASES
the whip hand a position of power or control over someone. whip someone's ass see ass2. PHRASAL VERBS whip in act as whipper-in. whip someone into urge or rouse someone into (a specified state or position): the radio host whipped his listeners into a frenzy 
the city had been whipped into shape. whip something out (or off) write something hurriedly: you'll find the software ideal for whipping out memos and proposals. whip someone up deliberately excite someone into having a strong feeling or reaction: Dad had managed to whip himself up into a fantastic rage. whip something up
1 cause water, sand, etc., to rise up and be flung about in a violent manner: the sea was whipped up by a force-nine gale. 
• stimulate a particular feeling in someone: we tried hard to whip up interest in the products.
2 make or prepare something, typically something to eat, very quickly.DERIVATIVES whiplike 
-ˌlīk 
adjective. whipper nounORIGIN Middle English: probably from Middle Low German and Middle Dutch wippen ‘swing, leap, dance,’ from a Germanic base meaning ‘move quickly.’ The noun is partly from the verb, reinforced by Middle Low German wippe ‘quick movement.’
