wide 
BrE wʌɪd, AmE waɪd 

A.  adjective 
① (broad) 宽阔的 kuānkuò de ‹river, space›; 宽松的 kuānsōng de ‹skirt, trousers›a wide grin 满面的笑容 her wide mouth/nose/shoulders 她的大嘴/宽鼻子/宽肩膀 they are making the street wider 他们正在拓宽街道 how wide is your garden? 你的花园有多宽？ ‘wide load’ “超宽货物” is the gap wide enough for my car to pass through? 这个空当儿够我的车通过吗？ eyes wide with amazement 惊异得睁得大大的眼睛 
② (immense) 广阔的 guǎngkuò de ‹ocean, plain, sky›
③ figurative (considerable) 很大的 hěn dà de ‹difference›a wide margin 很大的差距 there are wide variations in prices 价格变动很大 
④ figurative (extensive, varied) 广泛的 guǎngfàn de he has a wide circle of friends 他的朋友圈子很广 to enjoy wide support 获得广泛支持 a manager with wide experience in the industry 业界一位经验丰富的经理 the newspaper with the widest circulation 发行量最大的报纸 wider debate on this subject is essential 对这个话题必须进行更加广泛的辩论 there is wide agreement among academics that … 学术界有广泛的共识，认为… wide publicity 广泛宣传 in the wider context 在更广的背景下 wider issues/concerns 更广泛的问题/更普遍的关切 in the widest sense of the word 广义而言 
⑤ (off target) 远离目标的 yuǎnlí mùbiāo de ‹shot, arrow›figurative 离谱的 lípǔ de ‹guess›the ball is wide 球打飞了 to be wide of [something] 远离某事物 
⑥ Sport (outside) 边线的 biānxiàn de ‹position, player›
B.  adverb 
① (to or at a distance) 分得很开 fēn de hěn kāi the door was open wide 门敞开着 to open one's eyes/mouth wide 睁大眼睛/张大嘴巴 he stood with his feet wide apart 他双脚大幅跨开站在那里 open wide! 张大嘴！ 
② (off target) 偏离目标地 piānlí mùbiāo de ‹shoot, aim›to be wide of [something]; 偏离某物 
③ Sport (in outside position) 在边线 zài biānxiàn ‹play, run›
C.  noun (in cricket) [板球] 歪球 wāiqiú 
D.  -wide combining form 全…范围的 quán… fànwéi de a countrywide search 全国范围的搜索 citywide celebrations 全城庆祝活动 
wide 
wīd

▶adjective (wider, widest)
1 of great or more than average width: a wide road. 
• (after a measurement and in questions) from side to side: it measures
15 cm long by
12 cm wide 
how wide do you think this house is? 
• open to the full extent: wide eyes. 
• considerable: tax revenues have undershot Treasury projections by a wide margin.
2 including a great variety of people or things: a wide range of opinion. 
• spread among a large number of people or over a large area: the business is slowly gaining wider acceptance. 
• [in combination] extending over the whole of: an industry-wide trend.
3 at a considerable or specified distance from a point or mark: Bodie's shot was inches wide. 
• Baseball (of a pitch) outside: the ball was wide of the plate. 
• Baseball (of a throw) to either side of a base: forced a wide throw to first. 
• (in field sports) at or near the side of the field: he played in a wide left position.
4 Phonetics another term for lax1. 
▶adverb
1 to the full extent: his eyes opened wide.
2 far from a particular point or mark: a shot that went wide to the right. 
• at or near the side of the field; toward the sideline: he will play wide on the right. 
▶noun Cricket a ball that is judged to be too wide of the stumps for the batsman to play, for which an extra is awarded to the batting side. 
PHRASES
give someone/something a wide berth see berth. wide awake fully awake. wide of the mark see off the mark at mark1. wide open 
ˌwīd ˈōp(ə)n 

1 fully open: the door was wide open.
2 (of an issue or a contest) completely unresolved or unpredictable.
3 vulnerable, especially to attack.DERIVATIVES wideness 
ˈwīdnəs 
noun. widish adjectiveORIGIN Old English wīd ‘spacious, extensive,’ wīde ‘over a large area,’ of Germanic origin.
