wild 
BrE wʌɪld, AmE waɪld 

A.  adjective 
① (not domesticated) 野生的 yěshēng de ‹animal, plant, forest›wild horses/flowers 野马/野花 a wild beast literal, figurative 野兽 
② pejorative (uncivilized) 未开化的 wèi kāihuà de ‹people›the wild tribes of the Amazon Basin 亚马孙盆地的原始部落 wild and woolly 粗野的 
③ (desolate) 荒凉的 huāngliáng de ‹area, scenery›
④ (turbulent) 暴风雨的 bàofēngyǔ de ‹night›; 狂暴的 kuángbào de ‹weather, storm, sea›
⑤ (undisciplined) 放荡的 fàngdàng de ‹youth, party›; 胡乱的 húluàn de ‹aim, shot›wild disorder 极度混乱 he led a wild life in his youth 他年轻时生活放荡 there was a lot of wild play in the first ten minutes of the game 比赛的最初10分钟时间里，球员们的动作很粗野 to take a wild swing (at [somebody]) （朝某人）胡乱挥拳 to walk on the wild side 桀骜不驯 wild (locks of) hair （几绺）乱蓬蓬的头发 
⑥ (unrestrained) 无节制的 wújiézhì de wild laughter 纵声大笑 wild anger/enthusiasm/delight 狂怒/狂热/狂喜 a wild imagination 信马由缰的想象 to be wild with grief 悲痛欲绝 
⑦ predicative colloquial (furious) 狂怒的 kuángnù de to make or drive [somebody] wild 使某人发狂 to go wild 大发雷霆 
⑧ predicative colloquial (enthusiastic) to be wild about [somebody]/[something]; 热衷于某人/某事物 rèzhōng yú mǒu rén/mǒu shìwù the children have gone wild about these new computer games 孩子们对这些新电脑游戏非常痴迷 
⑨ (outlandish) 轻率的 qīngshuài de ‹talk, promise›; 无根据的 wúgēnjù de ‹idea, accusation›wild rumours 捕风捉影的谣言 a wild guess 瞎猜 
⑩ colloquial (excellent) 极棒的 jí bàng de ‹event, experience›(exciting) 令人激动的 lìng rén jīdòng de we had a wild time in New York 我们在纽约玩得开心极了 
⑪ Games 百搭的 bǎidā de ‹playing card›
B.  adverb 疯狂地 fēngkuáng de ‹grow›to run wild «garden» 变得荒芜 «child» 撒起欢儿来 sāqǐ huānr lai to let one's imagination run wild 让想象力自由驰骋 
C.  noun the wild (state) 野生 yěshēng (habitat) 野生环境 yěshēng huánjìng in the wild 在野生环境中 zàiyě shēng huánjìng zhōng the call of the wild 荒野的召唤 huāngyě de zhàohuàn 
D.  noun plural the wilds 偏远地区 piānyuǎn dìqū (to live) out in the wilds （生活）在偏僻地区 (shēnghuó)zài piānpì dìqū 
wild 
wīld

▶adjective
1 (of an animal or plant) living or growing in the natural environment; not domesticated or cultivated. 
• (of people) not civilized; barbarous: the wild tribes from the north. 
• (of scenery or a region) desolate-looking: the wild coastline of Cape Wrath.
2 uncontrolled or unrestrained, especially in pursuit of pleasure: she went through a wild phase of drunken parties and desperate affairs. 
• not based on sound reasoning or probability: a wild guess 
who, even in their wildest dreams, could have anticipated such a victory? 
• stormy: the wild sea. 
• informal very enthusiastic or excited: I'm not wild about the music. 
• informal very angry. 
• (of looks, appearance, etc.) indicating distraction: her wild eyes were darting back and forth. 
• (of a playing card) deemed to have any value, suit, color, or other property in a game at the discretion of the player holding it. See also wild card. 
▶noun (the wild) a natural state or uncultivated or uninhabited region: kiwis are virtually extinct in the wild. 
• (the wilds) a remote uninhabited or sparsely inhabited area: he spent a year in the wilds of Canada. 
PHRASES
run wild (of an animal, plant, or person) grow or develop without restraint or discipline: these horses have been running wild since they were born 
figurative : her imagination had run wild. wild horses wouldn't —— used to convey that nothing could persuade or force someone to do something: wild horses wouldn't have kept me away. wild and woolly uncouth in appearance or behavior.DERIVATIVES wildish adjectiveORIGIN Old English wilde, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch and German wild .
