wing 
BrE wɪŋ, AmE wɪŋ 
A. noun 
① (of bird, bat, insect) 翅膀 chìbǎng on the wing 飞行中的 to catch insects on the wing 捕捉飞虫 on a wing and a prayer 成功的机会微乎其微 to take [somebody] under one's wing 呵护某人 to be under [somebody's] wing 在某人的保护之下 to clip [somebody's] wings 限制某人的自由 to give [somebody]/[something] wings literary 给某人/某物插上翅膀 to spread one's wings 充分发挥才能 to take wing literary 飞走 
② Aviation 机翼 jīyì 
③ Architecture 房屋侧翼部 fángwū cèyìbù the east wing 东厢房 the maternity wing at the hospital 医院的妇产科部门 
④ Politics 派系 pàixì the left/right wing 左翼/右翼 
⑤ Sport (position) 边路 biānlù (player) 边锋 biānfēng 
⑥ Military (flank) 侧翼 cèyì 
⑦ BrE Auto 挡泥板 dǎngníbǎn 
⑧ (of armchair) 翼部 yìbù 
⑨ Military (unit) 侧翼部队 cèyì bùduì 
⑩ (on sanitary towel) [卫生巾的] 护翼 hùyì 
B.  wings noun plural 
① Theatre the wings 侧面 to wait in the wings 在舞台侧面候场 figurative 时刻准备着 shíkè zhǔnbèizhe 
② Aviation (pilot's certificate) 飞行胸章 fēixíng xiōngzhāng to earn or get one's wings 获得飞行资格 
C.  transitive verb 
① (injure on wing) 弄伤…的翅膀 nòngshāng… de chìbǎng ‹bird›; figurative (wound slightly on the arm) «bullet, shot» 擦伤…的手臂 cāshāng… de shǒubì ‹person›(wound slightly on the shoulder) «bullet, shot» 擦伤…的肩膀 cāshāng… de jiānbǎng ‹person›
② (make fly) 使飞速行进 shǐ fēisù xíngjìn he winged an arrow towards the target 他朝靶子射出了一支箭 
③ (fly) to wing its way «bird, plane» 飞 fēi the prize will be winging its way to you soon 奖品很快就会送到你的手中 to wing it colloquial (improvise) 即兴而为 jíxìng ér wéi 
wing 
▶noun
1 a bird's wings: literary pinion.
2 the east wing of the house: part, section, side; annex, extension, bump-out, ell.
3 the radical wing of the party: faction, camp, arm, branch, group, section, set, coterie, cabal; side, end.
▶verb
1 a seagull winged its way over the sea: fly, glide, soar.
2 the bomb winged past: hurtle, speed, shoot, whiz, zoom, streak, fly.
3 the hunter only winged the hawk: wound, graze, hit.
PHRASES
wing it informal if you don't know all the words, just wing it: improvise, play it by ear, extemporize, ad lib, fly by the seat of one's pants, fake it. REFLECTIONS Joshua Ferriscanceleer This lovely word is specific to the hawk: it means 'to turn once or twice on the wing before attacking.' I like it for its sound— can-sah-leer —but also for all the work that little word performs. One pictures the hawk in the air, sturdy, graceful, circling, then swooping down with fierce purpose. Canceleer can be both noun and verb, and wouldn’t it be nice to use it metaphorically, to describe that time of graceful preparation before one takes decisive action?Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
