witness 
BrE ˈwɪtnəs, AmE ˈwɪtnəs 

A.  noun 
① Countable(onlooker) 目击者 mùjīzhě to be (a) witness to [something]; 是…的目击者 ‹event, crime›we have been witnesses to great changes in society 我们见证了社会的巨大变化 
② CountableLaw (sb. who testifies) 证人 zhèngren a prosecution/defence witness 原告/被告证人 to call a witness 传唤证人出庭作证 to call [somebody] as a witness 请某人作证人 to produce a witness 提供一位证人 
③ CountableLaw (signatory) 见证人 jiànzhèngrén to act as (a) witness 充当见证人 in the presence of a witness 当着见证人的面 a witness to an agreement/a will//[somebody's] signature 合约/遗嘱/某人签名的连署人 a witness at a wedding 证婚人 
④ Uncountableformal (testimony) 证明 zhèngmíng to be or bear witness to [something] «appearance, state» (prove) 证明某事物 (indicate) 表明某事物 to give witness on behalf of [somebody] 为某人作证 to bear false witness Law 作伪证 in witness of [something] 作为某事的证明 in witness thereof, … 兹证明，… 
⑤ UncountableReligion 见证 jiànzhèng 
B.  transitive verb 
① (see) 目睹 mùdǔ ‹accident, event›
② Law (authenticate) 为…作证 wèi… zuòzhèng ‹signature›; 为…的签署作证 wèi… de qiānshǔ zuòzhèng ‹document, agreement›; 作…的见证人 zuò… de jiànzhèngrén ‹marriage›
③ formal (be evidence for) 见证 jiànzhèng (be a sign of) 表明 biǎomíng his hard work has paid off, (as) witness his exam results 他的努力获得了回报，他的考试成绩就是明证 
④ figurative (experience) «person, society, place» 经历 jīnglì ‹change›the last decade has witnessed tremendous advances in technology 过去的10年在技术方面有了巨大进步 this house has witnessed many historic events 这栋房子里发生过许多历史事件 
C.  intransitive verb 证明 zhèngmíng to witness to [something]; 证明某事物 his writings witness to an inner toughness 从他的文章中可以看出内心的坚强 
witness 
ˈwitnəs

▶noun
1 a person who sees an event, typically a crime or accident, take place: police are appealing for witnesses to the accident 
I was witness to one of the most amazing comebacks in sprinting history. 
• a person giving sworn testimony to a court of law or the police. 
• a person who is present at the signing of a document and signs it themselves to confirm this.
2 evidence; proof: the memorial service was witness to the wide circle of his interest. 
• used to refer to confirmation or evidence given by signature, under oath, or otherwise: in witness thereof, the parties sign this document. 
• open profession of one's religious faith through words or actions: faithful Christian witness.
3 a member of the Jehovah's Witnesses. 
▶verb
1 [with object] see (an event, typically a crime or accident) take place: a bartender who witnessed the murder. 
• have knowledge of (an event or change) from personal observation or experience: what we are witnessing is the birth of a dangerously liberal orthodoxy. 
• (of a time, place, or other context) be the setting in which (an event or development) takes place: the 1980s witnessed an unprecedented increase in the scope of the electronic media. 
• be present as someone signs (a document) or gives (their signature) to a document and sign it oneself to confirm this: the clerk witnessed her signature. 
• [in imperative] look at (used to introduce a fact illustrating a preceding statement): the nuclear family is a vulnerable institution—witness the rates of marital breakdown.
2 [no object] (witness to) give or serve as evidence of; testify to: his writings witness to an inner toughness.
3 [no object] (of a person) openly profess one's religious faith: our duty is to witness to God. 
PHRASES
as God is my witness (or God be my witness) an invocation of God as confirmation of the truth of a statement: God be my witness, sir, I didn't!call someone or something to witness archaic appeal or refer to someone or something for confirmation or evidence of something: his hands extended upward as if to call the heavens to witness this injustice.ORIGIN Old English witnes (see wit1, -ness).
