wolf 
BrE wʊlf, AmE wʊlf 
noun(plural wolves) 
① Zoology 狼 láng a pack of wolves 一群狼 the big bad wolf 大灰狼 she-wolf 母狼 to keep the wolf from the door 勉强度日 a wolf in sheep's clothing 披着羊皮的狼 to throw [somebody] to the wolves 弃某人于险境而不顾 to cry wolf 喊“狼来了” ［发假警报］a lone wolf figurative 喜欢独自行动的人 a wolf pack 狼群 
② colloquial figurative (person) 色狼 sèláng PHRASAL VERB wolf down transitive verb[wolf down something], [wolf something down] 狼吞虎咽地吃 láng tūn hǔ yàn de chī ‹food, meal›
wolf 
wo͝olf

▶noun (plural wolves 
wo͝olvz
)
1 a wild carnivorous mammal of the dog family, living and hunting in packs. It is native to both Eurasia and North America, but has been widely exterminated. [Canis lupus, family Canidae; it is the chief ancestor of the domestic dog.] 
• used in names of mammals similar or related to the wolf, e.g., maned wolf, Tasmanian wolf.
2 used in similes and metaphors to refer to a rapacious, ferocious, or voracious person or thing. 
• informal a man who habitually seduces women.
3 a harsh or out-of-tune effect produced when playing particular notes or intervals on a musical instrument, caused either by the instrument's construction or by divergence from equal temperament. 
▶verb [with object] devour (food) greedily: he wolfed down his breakfast. 
PHRASES
cry wolf call for help when it is not needed, with the effect that one is not believed when one really does need help. [with allusion to Aesop's fable of the shepherd boy who deluded people with false cries of “Wolf!”] hold (or have) a wolf by the ears be in a precarious position. keep the wolf from the door have enough money to avert hunger or starvation (used hyperbolically): I work part-time to pay the mortgage and keep the wolf from the door. throw someone to the wolves leave someone to be roughly treated or criticized without trying to help or defend them. a wolf in sheep's clothing a person or thing that appears friendly or harmless but is really hostile. [with biblical allusion to Matt. 7:15.]DERIVATIVES wolflike 
-ˌlīk 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English wulf, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch wolf and German Wolf, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin lupus and Greek lukos. The verb dates from the mid 19th century.
