woman 
BrE ˈwʊmən, AmE ˈwʊmən 
noun(plural women /ˈwɪmɪn/) 
① Countable(adult female) 成年女子 chéngnián nǚzǐ (as representative) 女人 nǚrén a single/married woman 单身/已婚女人 the working or a career woman 职业女性 an old woman 老太太 a six-woman team 6个女人的小组 to talk woman to woman 女人间坦诚地交谈 to be one's own woman 独立自主 the house lacked a woman's touch 这个家缺少女人气息 a woman's work is never done proverb 女人的事情总是干不完 a woman's place is in the home proverb 女人的位置在家里 a woman of letters (scholar) 女学者 (author) 女作家 
② Countable(particularized) 某种女子 mǒu zhǒng nǚzǐ that dog/presenter woman on the television 电视上的那名养狗女子/女主持人 
③ Countablecolloquial pejorative (emphatic) 那个女人 nàge nǚrén it's that wretched woman again! 又是那个讨厌的女人！ 
④ Countablecolloquial offensive or humorous (as form of address) 娘儿们 niángrmen young woman! 小妞儿！ my good woman BrE dated 大姐 
⑤ Countable(wife) 妻子 qīzi ; (lover) 情人 qíngrén ; (girlfriend) 女朋友 nǚpéngyou the other woman 第三者 the little woman dated humorous (sb.'s wife) 老婆 
⑥ Uncountable(the female sex) 女性 nǚxìng history's portrayal of woman 历史上对于女性的描述 a woman doctor/friend 女医生/女性朋友 
⑦ Uncountable(feminine quality) the woman in [somebody]; 某人的女人气质 mǒu rén de nǚrén qìzhì she's all woman! 她真有女人味儿啊！ tā zhēn yǒu nǚrén wèir ɑ ！ 
woman 
▶noun
1 a woman got out of the car: lady, girl, female; matron; Scottish lass, lassie; informal chick, girlie, sister, dame, broad, gal; grrrl; literary maid, maiden, damsel; archaic wench, gentlewoman; (women) womenfolk.
2 he found himself a new woman: girlfriend, sweetheart, partner, significant other, inamorata, lover, mistress; fiancée; wife, spouse; informal missus, better half, (main) squeeze, babe, baby; dated lady friend, ladylove.
WORD LINKS
woman female , feminine relating to women gynecology the branch of medicine concerned with conditions specific to women and girls misogyny hatred of womenWord Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.REFLECTIONS Michael Dirdawoman There's nothing like a dame. Unless it's a hot babe or a shy young maiden. Whether one regards the abundance of nouns for the human female as a sign of a phallocratic culture or an indication of woman's infinite variety (or both), there's no denying the rude poetry of chick, broad, and minx or the provincial charm of lass, colleen, and demoiselle. A Damon Runyon might refer to a doll or a skirt, a Nabokov linger over a nymphet, 
C.  
S.  Lewis address a daughter of Eve, Sir Lancelot rescue a damsel, and Falstaff call for a wench. In rap songs, a woman may be reduced to her sexual parts and in romantic poetry find herself a goddess or a “belle dame sans merci.” So many possibilities! One can suggest an entire mindset or social stratum by choosing just the right synonym. Is your companion a formidable dowager or just a nice bit of fluff? The Queen of Sheba speaks for her sex when she reminds us, in Flaubert's novel The Temptation of St. Anthony, “I am not a woman, I am a world.”Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
