working 
BrE ˈwəːkɪŋ, AmE ˈwərkɪŋ 

A.  adjectiveattributive 
① (in profession) 有工作的 yǒu gōngzuò de (in manual job) 从事体力劳动的 cóngshì tǐlì láodòng de a working mother 在职母亲 the working population of the country 这个国家的劳动人口 
② (involving employment or in employed time) 工作上的 gōngzuò shang de working conditions/relationship 工作条件/关系 a working lunch 工作午餐 during or in working hours 在上班时间 a working holiday 打零工的假期 
③ (functioning) 运行中的 yùnxíng zhōng de ‹model, farm, mine›; 操纵用的 cāozòng yòng de ‹part›in (full) working order 运行正常地 to have a working knowledge of [something] 有某方面基本够用的知识 
④ (provisional) 初步的 chūbù de ‹definition, hypothesis, theory›
⑤ Finance 营运的 yíngyùn de ‹assets, expenses›
B.  noun 
① Uncountable(making) 制作 zhìzuò (tooling, shaping) 加工 jiāgōng the working of; 对…的加工 ‹iron, wood, leather›the working of a bowl from a piece of clay or of a piece of clay into a bowl 用黏土做成碗的加工过程 
② Uncountableespecially School (draft, notes) 解题思路 jiětí sīlù 
③ CountableTransport 运行线路 yùnxíng xiànlù 
C.  workings noun plural 
① (operation) 运转 yùnzhuǎn the workings of a machine/an organization/a system; 机器/机构/系统的运转 the workings of the human mind figurative 人脑活动 
② (of mine) 工作区 gōngzuòqū ; (of quarry) 采石场 cǎishíchǎng 
working 
ˈwərkiNG

▶adjective
1 having paid employment: the size of the working population. 
• engaged in manual labor: the vote is no longer sufficient protection for the working man. 
• relating to, suitable for, or for the purpose of work: improvements in living and working conditions. 
• (of an animal) used in farming, hunting, or for guard duties; not kept as a pet or for show. 
• (of something possessed) sufficient to work with: they have a working knowledge of contract law. 
• (of a theory, definition, or title) used as the basis for work or argument and likely to be developed, adapted, or improved later: the working hypothesis is tested and refined through discussion.
2 functioning or able to function: the mill still has a working waterwheel. 
• (of parts of a machine) moving and causing a machine to operate: the working parts of a digital watch. 
▶noun
1 the action of doing work. 
• (usually workings) a mine or a part of a mine from which minerals are being extracted.
2 (workings) the way in which a machine, organization, or system operates: we will be less secretive about the workings of government. 
PHRASES
working lunch (or dinner, etc.) a lunch (or dinner, etc.) at which those present discuss business.
