worst 
BrE wəːst, AmE wərst 

A.  adjective(superlative form of bad) 
① usually attributive (most unpleasant, unfavourable) 最坏的 zuì huài de the worst years of the Depression 大萧条时期最糟的年头 hypocrites of the worst kind 最卑鄙的伪君子 
② (of the lowest standard or quality) 最差的 zuì chà de the worst dentist in the town 城里最差劲的牙医 the worst thing about the film is … 这部影片最差的是… to be worst at [something]; 在…方面最差 ‹subject, sport›she was worst at dealing with customers 她最不擅长与顾客打交道 
③ usually attributive (most serious, severe) 最严重的 zuì yánzhòng de ‹disaster, mistake›my worst fears 我最担心的事 
④ (most inappropriate) 最不合适的 zuì bù héshì de at the worst possible time 在最不合适的时候 the worst person for the job 最不适合干这项工作的人 
⑤ (most harmful) 最有害的 zuì yǒuhài de fats are worst for you 脂肪对你最有害 
B.  adverb(superlative form of badly) 
① (most unpleasantly, unfavourably) 最坏地 zuì huài de to fit worst of all 最不合身 your feet smell the worst 你的脚最臭 the worst-equipped school in the city 市内设施最简陋的学校 worst of all 最糟糕的是 
② (most incompetently) 最差地 zuì chà de I sang the worst 我唱得最差 to do worst 表现最差 
③ (most severely) 最严重地 zuì yánzhòng de to be worst affected by [something] 受某事物的影响最严重 the children suffered (the) worst 孩子们是最受罪的 
C.  noun 
① (most unpleasant thing) 最坏的事物 zuì huài de shìwù (most unpleasant person) 最糟的人 zuì zāo de rén to look/sound/taste/smell the worst 最难看/最难听/最难吃/最难闻 to look one's worst 显得最难看 wasps are the worst of all 黄蜂是最讨厌的 to think the worst of [somebody] 把某人往最坏处想 at (the) worst 往最坏处说 
② (thing of lowest standard) 最差的事物 zuì chà de shìwù (person of lowest standard) 最差的人 zuì chà de rén the worst of her books 她写的最差的一本书 the worst of its type or kind 同类型中最差的 the worst of the bunch or lot 一批中最差的 I was the worst at maths in the class 我是班上数学最差的 as doctors go, she's the worst 作为医生她是最差的 
③ (most incompetent state) 最差状态 zuì chà zhuàngtài to be at one's worst 处于最差状态 I'm at my worst in the mornings 我在上午精神最差 
④ (most serious, severe state) 最严重的情况 zuì yánzhòng de qíngkuàng the storm was one of the worst in recent years 这是近年来最严重的暴风雨之一 to be at its worst «pain, situation» 最严重 at (the) worst 至多 at the worst she can only refuse 充其量她只能拒绝 if (the) worst comes to (the) worst 如果情况坏到极点 
⑤ (greatest harm) 最大的损害 zuì dà de sǔnhài to do one's worst 进行最大的破坏 let them do their worst! 让他们拿出最坏的招数吧！ 
⑥ (most negative trait) 最坏的品质 zuì huài de pǐnzhì to exploit the worst in [somebody] 利用某人最坏的品质 to bring out the worst in [somebody] 使某人原形毕露 
⑦ (least advantageous) 最不利的方面 zuì bùlì de fāngmiàn the worst thing about being freelance is … 自由职业的最大坏处是… to get the worst of a deal/argument 在交易中吃大亏/在争论中彻底败下阵来 to get the worst of it 遭遇失败 the worst of both or all worlds 各种情况的所有不利因素 
⑧ (least appropriate) 最不合适的情况 zuì bù héshì de qíngkuàng to turn up at the worst of times 在最不恰当的时候出现 
D.  transitive verb usually passive formal 击败 jībài to be worsted by government forces 被政府军打败 
worst 
wərst

▶adjective superlative of bad, ill. 
• of the poorest quality or the lowest standard; least good or desirable: the speech was the worst he had ever made. 
• most severe, serious, or dangerous: at least 32 people died in Australia's worst bus accident. 
▶adverb
1 superlative of badly, ill.
2 most severely or seriously: manufacturing and mining are the industries worst affected by falling employment. 
• least well, skillfully, or pleasingly: he was voted the worst dressed celebrity. 
▶noun the most serious or unpleasant thing that could happen: when I saw the ambulance outside her front door, I began to fear the worst. 
• the most serious, dangerous, or unpleasant part or stage of something: there are signs that the recession is past its worst. 
▶verb [with object] get the better of; defeat: this was not the time for a deep discussion—she was tired and she would be worsted. 
PHRASES
at its (or someone's) worst in the most serious, undesirable, or unpleasant state: nothing's working at the moment, so I suppose you've seen us at our worst. at worst (or the worst) in the most serious case: at worst the injury could mean months in the hospital. 
• under the most unfavorable interpretation: the cabinet's reaction to the crisis was at best ineffective and at worst irresponsible.be one's own worst enemy see enemy. do one's worst (in the view of one's opponent) do as much damage as one can (often used to express defiance in the face of threats): let them do their worst—he would never surrender. get (or have) the worst of it be in the least advantageous or successful position; suffer the most. if worst comes to worst if the most serious or difficult circumstances arise. in the worst way US informal very much: he wants to win in the worst way.ORIGIN Old English wierresta, wyrresta (adjective), wierst, wyrst (adverb), of Germanic origin; related to worse .
