wrap 
BrE rap, AmE ræp 

A.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -pp-) 
① (enclose) 包 bāo ‹present, food, parcel›to wrap [somebody] in one's arms 把某人搂在怀里 to be wrapped in [something] 被…包裹 ‹paper› figurative 被笼罩在…中 bèi lǒngzhào zài… zhōng ‹darkness, silence› 专心致志于 zhuān xīn zhì zhì yú ‹thoughts›a baby wrapped (up) in a blanket 裹在毯子里的婴儿 the hills were wrapped in mist 山峦笼罩在薄雾之中 an affair still wrapped in mystery 一个仍然扑朔迷离的事件 
② (swathe) (for decoration, protection) 用…包 yòng… bāo ‹paper, foil›(to keep warm) 用…裹 yòng… guǒ ‹blanket, shawl›(to keep clean) 用…包扎 yòng… bāozā ‹bandage›to wrap paper/foil round or around [something]; 用纸/箔片包住某物 to wrap a blanket around [somebody] 用毯子裹住某人身体 to wrap a handkerchief round one's finger 用手帕包住手指 to wrap one's arms round [somebody] 搂住某人 to wrap an arm around [somebody's] waist 用一只胳膊搂着某人的腰 he wrapped his legs round mine 他的腿缠着我的腿 to wrap the car round a lamppost colloquial 开车撞上路灯柱 
③ Computing 使…自动换行 shǐ… zìdòng huàn háng ‹word, text›
B.  intransitive verb(present participle etc. -pp-) «word, text» 自动换行 zìdòng huàn háng 
C.  reflexive verb(present participle etc. -pp-) 
① (pull on) to wrap oneself (in a blanket) （用毯子）裹住身体 (yòng tǎnzi)guǒzhù shēntǐ to wrap oneself in an air of mystery 把自己搞得很神秘 bǎ zìjǐ gǎo de hěn shénmì 
② AmE colloquial to wrap oneself around [something] (eat) 啃某食物 kěn mǒu shíwù 
D.  noun 
① Countable(coat) 外衣 wàiyī (shawl) 披肩 pījiān (scarf) 围巾 wéijīn (blanket) 毯子 tǎnzi 
② CountableCulinary 墨西哥卷 Mòxīgē juǎn [薄饼裹凉馅制成]
③ Countablesingular (end of session) Cinema 停机 tíngjī Audio equipment 录音完成 lùyīn wánchéng it's a wrap Cinema 就拍到这里 
④ Uncountable and countable(packaging) 包装材料 bāozhuāng cáiliào 
E.  wraps noun plural to be under wraps 处于保密状态 chǔyú bǎomì zhuàngtài to keep [something] under wraps 对某事保密 duì mǒu shì bǎomì to take the wraps off [something] 揭开某事的内幕 jiēkāi mǒu shì de nèimù PHRASAL VERB wrap up 
A.  transitive verb[wrap something/somebody up], [wrap up something/somebody] 
① (enclose, swathe) 把…包起来 bǎ… bāo qilai ‹object, parcel, person›wrap the children up warm(ly) 给孩子们穿得暖和点 
② colloquial (conclude) 结束 jiéshù ‹project, event, talks›; 完成 wánchéng ‹deal›; 赢得 yíngdé ‹title, victory›let's get the whole thing wrapped up 我们来把这一切都了结了吧 the team wrapped up the series 4:0 该队以4:0的比分获得该项系列赛的胜利 to wrap up the evening's news especially AmE 总结夜间新闻 
③ figurative colloquial (involve) to be wrapped up in [somebody]/[something]; 注意力集中在某人身上/某事物上 zhùyìlì jízhōng zài mǒu rén shēn shang/mǒu shìwù shang to be totally wrapped up in one's work 完全沉浸在工作中 wánquán chénjìn zài gōngzuò zhōng there is a lot of money wrapped up in the project 有许多钱投入到了这个项目中 to be wrapped up in oneself 自闭 zìbì 
B.  intransitive verb 
① (dress) 穿得暖和 chuān de nuǎnhuo wrap up well or warm(ly)! 穿得暖和点儿！ 
② BrE colloquial (shut up) wrap up! 住嘴！ zhùzuǐ ！ 
C.  reflexive verb to wrap oneself up (well or warm(ly)) 穿得暖和 chuān de nuǎnhuo 
wrap 
rap

▶verb (wraps, wrapping, wrapped or archaic wrapt)
1 [with object] cover or enclose (someone or something) in paper or soft material: he wrapped the Christmas presents 
Leonora wrapped herself in a large white bath towel. 
• clasp; embrace: she wrapped him in her arms. 
• cover (the body) with a body wrap. 
• cover (the fingernails) with a nail wrap.
2 [with object] (wrap something around) arrange paper or soft material around (someone or something), typically as a covering or for warmth or protection: wrap the bandage around the injured limb. 
• place an arm, finger, or leg around (someone or something): he wrapped an arm around her waist. 
• informal crash a vehicle into (a stationary object): Richard wrapped his car around a telephone pole.
3 [with object] Computing cause (a word or unit of text) to be carried over to a new line automatically as the margin is reached, or to fit around embedded features such as pictures. 
• [no object] (of a word or unit or text) be carried over to the next line or fit around a picture.
4 [no object] informal finish filming or recording: we wrapped on schedule three days later. 
▶noun
1 a loose outer garment or piece of material. 
• [as modifier] denoting a garment having one part overlapping another; wraparound: a wrap skirt. 
• paper or soft material used for wrapping: plastic food wrap. 
• (usually wraps) a veil of secrecy maintained about something, especially a new project: details of the police operation are being kept under wraps.
2 [usually in singular] informal the end of a session of filming or recording: right, it's a wrap.
3 a sandwich in which the filling is rolled in a soft tortilla.
4 short for body wrap. 
• short for nail wrap. 
PHRASES
be wrapped up in be so engrossed or absorbed in (something) that one does not notice other people or things.PHRASAL VERBS wrap up (also wrap someone up) put on (or dress someone in) warm clothes: wrap up warm 
Tim was well wrapped up against the weather. wrap something up complete or conclude a discussion or agreement: they hope to wrap up negotiations within sixty days. 
• win a game or competition: Australia wrapped up the series 4–0.ORIGIN Middle English: of unknown origin.
