year 
BrE jɪə, jəː, AmE jɪr 

A.  noun 
① (period of time) 年 nián (measured from any point) 年度 niándù the academic or school year 学年 secretary of the year award 年度秘书奖 the pre-war/post-war years 战前/战后年代 this/next/last year 今年/明年/去年 the coming/current/past year 来年/本年/去年 the year before last/after next 前年/后年 every/every other year 每年/每隔一年 three years ago/later 3年前/后 for six years running 连续6年 in future years or years to come 在未来的日子里 I shall retire in two years or two years' time 再过两年我就退休了 year after year 年年 year in, year out 年复一年 year by year 一年一年地 a year-on-year spending increase 开销的逐年增长 all (the) year round 一年到头 over the years 多年来 £60,000 a or per year (income) 每年（收入）6万英镑 it'll be a year in or next January since she died 到一月份，她就去世有一年了 it was a year ago last October that I heard the news 我是去年十月听到那个消息的 it's over a year since I saw him last 自从我上次见到他已经过去一年多了 she got five years colloquial 她被判刑5年 it has taken years off me or my life! 这使我显得年轻了好几岁！ the job has put years on me! 这工作使我显得老了不少！ I gave you the best years of my life 我把一生中最好的年华给了你 the years had not been kind to her 岁月无情，她苍老了很多 
② singular (particular period) 日历年 rìlìnián in the year 1953 在1953年 in the year of Our Lord 1527 archaic 在公元1527年 what year is the wine? 这是什么年份的葡萄酒？ 
③ (indicating age) 岁 suì she is
19 years old or of age 她19岁 a two-year-old child 两岁的孩子 he was in his fortieth year 他当时40岁 
④ School, University (year of study, level) 年级 niánjí to be in one's third year (at Oxford) （在牛津）读大三 a first-year student BrE 一年级学生 to be in (the) third year 是三年级的学生 he was in my year at college 他读大学时和我同届 
⑤ BrE (pupil) [某年级的] 学生 xuésheng to teach the second years 教二年级的学生 
B.  years noun plural 
① (age) 岁数 suìshu from her earliest years 从她的早年 he's well on in years now 他现在已经一大把年纪了 to grow in years literary 年事渐高 
② colloquial (a long time) 很久 hěn jiǔ that would take years! 那要花很长时间！ it's (been) years since we last met! 我们已经多年没有见面了！ the worst film I've seen in years 我多年来看过的最糟糕的影片 he gave up smoking years ago 他老早就戒烟了 
year 
yir

▶noun
1 the time taken by a planet to make one revolution around the sun. The length of the earth's year depends on the manner of calculation. For ordinary purposes the important period is the solar year (also called astronomical year, equinoctial year, or tropical year), which is the time between successive spring or autumnal equinoxes, or winter or summer solstices, roughly 365 days,
5 hours, 48 minutes, and 46 seconds in length. This period thus marks the regular cycle of the seasons. See also sidereal year, anomalistic year .
2 the period of 365 days (or 366 days in leap years) starting from the first of January, used for reckoning time in ordinary affairs. Also called calendar year or civil year. 
• a period of 365 days starting from any date: the year starting July 1. 
• [with adjective] a year regarded in terms of the quality of produce, typically wine: single-vineyard wine of a good year. 
• a period used for reckoning time according to other calendars: the Muslim year.
3 (one's years) one's age or time of life: she had a composure well beyond her years.
4 (years) informal a very long time; ages: it's going to take years to put that right.
5 a set of students grouped together as being of roughly similar ages, mostly entering a school or college in the same academic year: most of the girls in my year were leaving school at the end of the term. 
PHRASES
in the year of our Lord (or dated in the year of grace) —— in the year ad——: I was born in the year of our Lord 1786. [year of grace, suggested by medieval Latin anno gratiae, used by chroniclers.] —— of the year a person or thing chosen as outstanding in a specified field or of a specified kind in a particular year: the sports personality of the year. put years on (or take years off) someone make someone feel or look older (or younger). a year and a day the period specified in some legal matters to ensure the completion of a full year. year in and year out continuously or repeatedly over a period of years: they rented the same bungalow year in and year out.ORIGIN Old English gē(a)r, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch jaar and German Jahr, from an Indo-European root shared by Greek hōra ‘season.’
