yet 
BrE jɛt, AmE jɛt 

A.  adverb 
① (by now, by then) 还 hái the children were not yet in bed 孩子们还没有上床睡觉 has he arrived yet? 他已经到了吗？ as yet (up to now) 到目前为止 dào mùqián wéizhǐ (up to then) 到那时为止 dào nàshí wéizhǐ he is as yet unmarried 他至今未婚 it was an as yet unexplored island 那是一座当时仍无人涉足的岛屿 
② (immediately) 即刻 jíkè don’t go yet 先别走 we don’t need to start yet 我们没有必要马上就开始 they won't come just yet 他们现在还来不了 
③ (indicating remaining possibility, time, or amount) 仍然 réngrán she may win yet, she may yet win 她仍然可能赢 you're young yet 你还年轻 we have yet to decide what action to take 我们尚需决定采取什么行动 there's a year to go yet 还有一年的时间 
④ (with superlatives) (up till now) 到目前为止 dào mùqián wéizhǐ (up till then) 到那时为止 dào nàshí wéizhǐ it's the best yet 这是迄今为止最好的 it was the highest building yet constructed 这是当时建成的最高建筑 
⑤ (even, still) 甚至 shènzhì more surprising yet or yet more surprising was her reaction 她的反应甚至更加令人吃惊 the noise grew yet louder 噪音甚至变得更大 
⑥ (indicating increase) 再 zài prices were cut yet again 价格再一次降低 she made yet another excuse 她又找了个借口 yet another diet book 又一本关于节食的书 snow, snow, and yet more snow 雪啊雪，没完没了的雪 
⑦ (in spite of that) 不过 bùguò so strong and yet so gentle 如此强壮却又如此温和 
B.  conjunction 然而 rán'ér it’s a small apartment, yet it’s surprisingly spacious 这是一套小公寓房，却宽敞得出奇 
yet 
yet

▶adverb
1 up until the present or a specified or implied time; by now or then: I haven't told anyone else yet 
aren't you ready to go yet? 
I have yet to be convinced 
[with superlative] : the congress was widely acclaimed as the best yet. 
• [with negative] as soon as the present or a specified or implied time: wait, don't go yet. 
• from now into the future for a specified length of time: I hope to continue for some time yet. 
• referring to something that will or may happen in the future: further research may yet explain the enigma 
I know she's alive and I'll find her yet.
2 still; even (used to emphasize increase or repetition): snow, snow, and yet more snow 
yet another diet book 
the rations were reduced yet again.
3 nevertheless; in spite of that: every week she gets worse, and yet it could go on for years. 
▶conjunction but at the same time; but nevertheless: the path was dark, yet I slowly found my way. 
PHRASES
as yet see as1. nor yet and also not.ORIGIN Old English gīet(a), of unknown origin.
