young 
BrE jʌŋ, AmE jəŋ 

A.  adjective 
① (not old) 年轻的 niánqīng de ‹person, nation, organization›; 幼小的 yòuxiǎo de ‹animal, plant›; 幼年的 yòunián de ‹mountain range, rock›children as young as five years of age 年仅5岁的幼童 they have a young family 他们家的孩子还小 her young man 她的男朋友 ［年长者用语］a young audience 青少年观众 to be young at heart 人老心不老 to be young for one's age 比实际年龄显得小 he's a young forty 他长得年轻，不像40岁的人 to marry/die young 结婚/去世得早 you're only young once 青春只有一次 I'm not so young as I was or used to be 我已经不年轻了 she is two years younger than him or than he is 她比他小两岁 the two younger/youngest children 这两个年龄较小的/最小的孩子 my younger brother 我的弟弟 my youngest sister 我的幺妹 the younger generation 年轻的一代 in my younger days 在我年轻的时候 we're not getting any younger 岁数不饶人啊 Mr Smith the younger 小史密斯先生 a young wine 新酿的葡萄酒 
② (near beginning stages) 刚开始的 gāng kāishǐ de ‹evening, project›; 初期的 chūqī de ‹institution›the young moon 新月 the night is young 夜幕初垂 
③ (of young people) 年轻人的 niánqīngrén de ‹love, look, fashion›
B.  noun plural 
① (young people) the young 青年人 qīngniánrén young and old (alike) （不分）老少 (bù fēn)lǎoshào 
② (offspring) (of animal) 幼兽 yòushòu (of bird) 幼禽 yòuqín to be with young 怀胎 
young 
yəNG

▶adjective (younger 
ˈyəNGɡər
, youngest 
ˈyəNGɡəst
) having lived or existed for only a short time: a young girl 
(as plural noun the young) : the young are amazingly resilient. 
• not as old as the norm or as would be expected: more people were dying young. 
• [attributive] relating to, characteristic of, or consisting of young people: young love 
a young authors' association. 
• immature or inexperienced: she's very young for her age. 
• having the qualities popularly associated with young people, such as enthusiasm and optimism: all those who are young at heart. 
• (the Younger) used to denote the younger of two people of the same name: Pitt the Younger. 
• (younger) [postpositive] Scottish denoting the heir of a landed commoner: Hugh Magnus Macleod, younger of Macleod. 
▶noun [treated as plural] offspring, especially of an animal before or soon after birth: this species carries its young. 
PHRASES
with young (of an animal) pregnant.DERIVATIVES youngish 
ˈyəNGiSH 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English g(e)ong, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch jong and German jung, also to youth; from an Indo-European root shared by Latin juvenis .
