address 
əˈdres ˈaˌdres

▶noun
1 the particulars of the place where someone lives or an organization is situated: they exchanged addresses and agreed to keep in touch. 
• the place itself: our officers went to the address. 
• Computing a string of characters that identifies a destination for email messages or the location of a website. 
• Computing a binary number that identifies a particular location in a data storage system or computer memory.
2 a formal speech delivered to an audience: delivered an address to the National Council of Teachers. 
• archaic a person's manner of speaking to someone else: his address was abrupt and unceremonious. 
• (addresses) archaic courteous or amorous approaches to someone: he persecuted her with his addresses.
3 dated skill, dexterity, or readiness: he rescued me with the most consummate address. 
▶verb [with object]
1 write the name and address of the intended recipient on (an envelope, letter, or package): I addressed my letter to him personally 
(as adjective addressed) : an addressed envelope.
2 speak to (a person or an assembly), typically in a formal way: she addressed an audience of the most important Shawnee chiefs 
they addressed themselves to my father. 
• (address someone as) name someone in a specified way when talking or writing: she addressed my father as “Mr. Stevens.” 
• (address something to) say or write remarks or a protest to (someone): address your complaints to the Board of Review.
3 think about and begin to deal with (an issue or problem): a fundamental problem has still to be addressed.
4 Golf take up one's stance and prepare to hit (the ball). 
PHRASES
form of address a name or title used in speaking or writing to a person of a specified rank or function: “Venerable” was the usual form of address for a priest at that time.DERIVATIVES addresser 
əˈdresər aˈdresər 
nounORIGIN Middle English (as a verb in the senses ‘set upright’ and ‘guide, direct,’ hence ‘write directions for delivery on’ and ‘direct spoken words to’): from Old French, based on Latin ad- ‘toward’ + directus (see direct). The noun is of mid 16th-century origin in the sense ‘act of approaching or speaking to someone.’
