after 
ˈaftər

▶preposition
1 during the period of time following (an event): shortly after Christmas 
there's only one thing to do after an experience like that 
[as conjunction] : bathtime ended in a flood after the faucets were left running 
[as adverb] : Duke Frederick died soon after. 
• with a period of time rather than an event: after a while he returned. 
• in phrases indicating something happening continuously or repeatedly: day after day we kept studying. 
• North American (used in specifying a time) past: I strolled in about ten minutes after two. 
• during the time following the departure of (someone): she cooks for him and cleans up after him.
2 behind: she went out, shutting the door after her. 
• (with reference to looking or speaking) in the direction of someone who is moving further away: she stared after him.
3 in pursuit or quest of: chasing after something you can't have 
most of them are after money 
Jenny still yearned after him.
4 next to and following in order or importance: in their order of priorities health comes after housing 
x comes after y in the series.
5 in allusion to (someone or something with the same or a related name): they named her Pauline, after Barbara's mother. 
• in imitation of: a drawing after Millet's The Reapers.
6 concerning or about: she has asked after Iris's mother. 
▶adjective [attributive]
1 archaic later: he was sorry in after years.
2 Nautical nearer the stern: the after cabin. 
PHRASES
after all in spite of any indications or expectations to the contrary: I called and told her I couldn't come after all 
you are my counselor, after all. after hours after normal working or opening hours, typically those of bars and nightclubs: [as adverb] : she was going in to work after hours 
[as adjective] : an after-hours jazz club. after you a polite formula used to suggest that someone goes in front of or takes a turn before oneself: after you, Mr. Pritchard.ORIGIN Old English æfter, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch achter .
