all 
ôl

▶predet.det., & pronoun used to refer to the whole quantity or extent of a particular group or thing: [as predeterminer] : all the people I met 
she left all her money to him 
[as determiner] : 10% of all cars sold 
he slept all day 
[as pronoun] : four bedrooms, all with balconies 
carry all of the blame 
the men are all bearded. 
• [determiner] any whatever: assured beyond all doubt 
he denied all knowledge. 
• [determiner] used to emphasize the greatest possible amount of a quality: they were in all probability completely unaware 
with all due respect. 
• informal dominated by a particular feature or characteristic: an eleven-year-old string bean, all elbows and knees. 
• [pronoun with clause] the only thing (used for emphasis): all I want is to be left alone. 
• [pronoun] (used to refer to surroundings or a situation in general) everything: all was well 
it was all very strange. 
• US dialect consumed; finished; gone: the cake is all. 
▶adverb
1 used for emphasis. 
• completely: dressed all in black 
she's been all around the world 
all by himself. 
• consisting entirely of: all leather varsity jacket.
2 (in games) used after a number to indicate an equal score: after extra time it was still two all. 
▶noun the whole of one's energy or interest: giving their all for what they believed. 
PHRASES
all along all the time; from the beginning: she'd known all along. all and sundry everyone: insolent drivers crying to all and sundry to get out of the way. all around (also British all round)
1 in all respects: it was a bad day all around.
2 for or by each person: drinks all around 
good acting all around. all but
1 very nearly: the subject was all but forgotten.
2 all except: we have support from all but one of the networks. all comers chiefly informal anyone who chooses to take part in an activity, typically a competition: the champion took on all comers. all for informal strongly in favor of: I was all for tolerance. all in 
ˌôl ˈin 
informal exhausted: he was all in by halftime. all in all everything considered; on the whole: all in all it's been a good year. all kinds (or sorts) of many different kinds of: how to install paneling on all kinds of walls. all manner of see manner. all of as much as (typically used ironically of a quantity considered small by the speaker): the show lasted all of six weeks. all of a sudden see sudden. all out 
ˌôlˈout 
using all one's strength or resources: going all out to win 
[as adjective] : an all-out effort. all over 
ˌôl ˈōvər 

1 completely finished: it's all over between us.
2 informal everywhere: there were bodies all over. 
• with reference to all parts of the body: I was shaking all over.
3 informal typical of the person mentioned: that's our management all over!
4 informal effusively attentive to (someone): James was all over her. all over the place (or map) 
ˌôl ˈōvər 
informal everywhere: we've been all over the place looking for you. 
• in a state of disorder: my hair was all over the place.all's well that ends well proverb if the outcome of a situation is happy, this compensates for any previous difficulty or unpleasantness. all that —— see that. all the same see same. all the —— see the ( sense 6). all there [usually with negative] informal in full possession of one's mental faculties: he's not quite all there. all the time see time. all together all in one place or in a group; all at once: 5,000 people all together 
they arrived all together. Compare with altogether. all told 
ˌôl ˈtōld 
in total: they tried a dozen times all told. all the way informal without limit or reservation: I'm with you all the way. See also go all the way at way. —— and all used to emphasize something additional that is being referred to: she threw her coffee over him, mug and all. 
• informal as well: it must hit him hard, being so young and all. at all [with negative or in questions] (used for emphasis) in any way; to any extent: I don't like him at all 
did he suffer at all? be all about —— informal be focused on or interested in (a particular thing): school has become my refuge and I'm all about being the perfect student. be all one to someone make no difference to someone: simple cases or hard cases, it's all one to me. be all that US informal be very attractive or good: he thinks he's all that—yeah, God's gift. be all up with see up. be all very well informal used to express criticism or rejection of a favorable or consoling remark: your proposal is all very well in theory, but in practice it will not pay. for all —— in spite of ——: for all its clarity and style, the book is not easy reading. in all in total number; altogether: there were about 5,000 people in all. of all see of. on all fours on hands and knees or (of an animal) on all four legs rather than just the hind ones: Frankie scuttled away on all fours. one and all see one. ORIGIN Old English all, eall, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch al and German all .
