as
1 
az əz

▶adverb (usually as —— as) used in comparisons to refer to the extent or degree of something: hailstones as big as tennis balls 
go as fast as you can 
it tasted like grape juice but not as sweet. 
• used to emphasize an amount: as many as twenty-two rare species may be at risk. 
▶conjunction
1 used to indicate that something happens during the time when something is taking place: Frank watched him as he ambled through the crowd 
as she grew older, she kept more to herself.
2 used to indicate by comparison the way that something happens or is done: dress as you would if you were having guests 
they can do as they wish 
[as adverb] : she kissed him goodbye, as usual 
as in the past, a collection is to be taken. 
• used to add or interject a comment relating to the statement of a fact: as you can see, I didn't go after all 
he has, as you know, called for a referendum.
3 because; since: I must stop now as I have to go out.
4 even though: sweet as he is, he doesn't pay his bills 
try as he might, he failed to pull it off. 
▶preposition
1 used to refer to the function or character that someone or something has: he got a job as a cook 
they were treated as foreigners 
it came as a shock 
as a dairy producer, you should evaluate and analyze your farm from many viewpoints.
2 during the time of being (the thing specified): he had often been sick as a child 
as a student, my nickname was Space. 
PHRASES
as and when at the time when (used to refer to an uncertain future event): they deal with an issue as and when it rears its head. as for with regard to: as for you, you'd better be quick. as if (or as though) as would be the case if: she behaved as if he weren't there.as if! informal I very much doubt it: You know how lottery winners always say it won't change their lives? Yeah, as if! as (it) is in the existing circumstances: I've got enough on my plate as it is. as it were in a way (used to be less precise): areas that have been, as it were, pushed aside. as long as see long1. as much see much. as of used to indicate the time or date from which something starts: as of January 1, a free market will be created 
I'm on unemployment as of today.as per see per. as such see such. as though see as if . as to with respect to; concerning: decisions as to which patients receive treatment. as well see well1. as yet [usually with negative] until now or a particular time in the past: the damage is as yet undetermined.ORIGIN Middle English: reduced form of Old English alswā ‘similarly’ (see also) . usage:
1 A small, seemingly innocent word, as is so frequently misused (or not used where needed) that interested writers are advised to consult a full-length usage guide for counsel on its proper use. As is often used in causal senses in place of because or since ( As Julie wasn't hungry, she ordered only a cup of coffee); in such constructions, where as may cause confusion, it is generally advisable to use the unambiguous because, or since.
2 On whether it is more correct to say he's not as shy as I rather than he's not as shy as me, or I live in the same street as she rather than I live in the same street as her, see usage at personal pronoun.3 For a discussion of when to use as rather than like, see usage at like1 .
