at
1 
at ət

▶preposition
1 expressing location or arrival in a particular place or position: they live at Conway House 
she was constantly at the telex machine 
they stopped at a small trattoria. 
• used in speech to indicate the sign @ in email addresses, separating the address holder's name from their location.
2 expressing the time when an event takes place: the children go to bed at nine o'clock 
his death came at a time when the movement was split. 
• [without adjective] denoting a particular period of time: the sea is cooler at night. 
• [without adjective] denoting the time spent by someone attending an educational institution, a workplace, or their home: we all need to get involved in fighting crime whether it's at work, at home, or at school.
3 denoting a particular point or segment on a scale: prices start at $18,500 
driving at 50 mph. 
• referring to someone's age: at fourteen he began to work as a mailman.
4 expressing a particular state or condition: placed them at a serious disadvantage 
the coroner accepted that the machines were at fault. 
• expressing a relationship between an individual and a skill: boxing was the only sport I was any good at 
he is poor at giving instructions.
5 expressing the object of a look, gesture, thought, action, or plan: I looked at my watch 
Leslie pointed at him. 
• expressing the target of a shot from a weapon: they tore down the main street, firing at anyone in sight. 
• emphasizing the directing of an action toward a specified object: she clutched at the thin gown 
he hit at her face with the gun.
6 expressing the means by which something is done: holding a corrections officer at knifepoint 
figurative : her pride had taken a beating at his hands. 
PHRASES
at all see all. at first see first. at it engaged in some activity, typically a reprehensible one: oh dear, they are at it again. at last see last1. at least see least. at most see most. at once see once. at that in addition; furthermore: it was not fog but smoke, and very thick at that. not at all see not. where it's at informal the fashionable place, possession, or activity: New York is where it's at, stylewise. where someone is at informal someone's true or fundamental nature or character: I think we've got enough information to have an idea of where he's at.ORIGIN Old English æt, of Germanic origin; related to Old Frisian et and Old Norse at, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin ad ‘to.’
