bad 
bad

▶adjective (worse 
wərs
; worst 
wərst
)
1 of poor quality or a low standard: a bad diet 
bad eyesight. 
• (of a person) not able to do a particular thing well: I'm so bad at names 
a bad listener. 
• not appropriate in a particular situation: morning was a bad time to ask Andy about anything.
2 not such as to be hoped for or desired; unpleasant or unwelcome: bad weather 
we had the worst luck. 
• (of something causing pain, danger, or other unwelcome consequences) severe or serious: bad headaches 
a bad crash 
a bad mistake. 
• unfavorable; adverse: bad reviews. 
• (bad for) having a harmful effect on: soap was bad for his face.
3 failing to conform to standards of moral virtue or acceptable conduct: the bad guys 
bad behavior. 
• (of language) using words generally considered offensive; vulgar.
4 (of a part of the body) injured, diseased, or painful: a bad back. 
• [as complement] (of a person) unwell: I tried medication but felt even worse the next morning.
5 (of food) decayed; putrid: everything in the fridge went bad. 
• (of the atmosphere) polluted; unhealthy: bad air.
6 [as complement] regretful, guilty, or ashamed about something: she feels bad about ending their engagement 
I feel bad that our business is benefiting from something so horrible.
7 worthless; not valid: he ran up 87 bad checks.
8 (badder, baddest) informal, chiefly North American good; excellent: they want the baddest, best-looking Corvette there is. 
▶adverb North American informal badly: he beat her up real bad. 
PHRASES
come to a bad end see end. from bad to worse into an even worse state: the country's going from bad to worse. in a bad way ill: Sammy shivered. He was in a bad way. 
• in trouble: the fleet was in a bad way, mainly due to a shortage of spares. my bad North American informal used to acknowledge responsibility for a mistake: Sorry about the confusion. It's my bad. not (or not so) bad informal fairly good: she discovered he wasn't so bad after all. to the bad to ruin: I hate to see you going to the bad. 
• in deficit: he was $80 to the bad. too bad informal used to indicate that something is regrettable but now beyond retrieval: too bad, but that's the way it is.DERIVATIVES baddish 
ˈbadiSH 
adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: perhaps representing Old English bǣddel ‘hermaphrodite, womanish man.’ usage: Confusion in the use of bad versus badly usually has to do with verbs called copulas, such as feel or seem. Thus, standard usage calls for I feel bad, not I feel badly. As a precise speaker or writer would explain, I feel badly means ‘I do not have a good sense of touch.’ See also usage at good .
