bang
1 
baNG

▶noun
1 a sudden loud noise: the door slammed with a bang 
I heard a series of loud bangs. 
• a sharp blow causing a sudden loud noise: I went to answer a bang on the front door. 
• a sudden painful blow: a nasty bang on the head.
2 (bangs) North American a fringe of hair cut straight across the forehead: she brushed back her wispy bangs. [from a use of the adverb bang to mean ‘abruptly.’]
3 vulgar slang an act of sexual intercourse.
4 Computing, chiefly North American the character “!” 
▶verb [with object]
1 strike or put down (something) forcefully and noisily, typically in anger or in order to attract attention: he began to bang the table with his fist 
Sarah banged the phone down 
[no object] : someone was banging on the door. 
• come into contact with (something) suddenly and sharply, typically by accident: I banged my head on the low beams 
[no object] : she banged into some shelves in the darkness. 
• [no object] make a sudden loud noise, typically repeatedly: the shutter was banging in the wind. 
• (with reference to a door) open or close violently and noisily: [with object and complement] : he banged the kitchen door shut behind him 
[no object, with complement] : the door banged open and a man staggered out. 
• [no object] (of a person) move around or do something noisily, especially as an indication of anger or irritation: she was banging around the kitchen. 
• (of a sports player) hit (a ball or a shot) forcefully and successfully: in his second start he banged out two hits. 
• vulgar slang (typically used of a man) have sexual intercourse with.
2 North American cut (hair) in a fringe. 
▶adverb informal, chiefly British exactly: bang in the middle of town. 
• completely: bring your wardrobe bang up to date. 
▶exclam.
1 used to express or imitate the sound of a sudden loud noise: firecrackers went bang 
Bang, Bang! You're dead.
2 used to convey the suddenness of an action or process: the minute something becomes obsolete, bang, it's gone. 
PHRASES
bang for one's (or the) buck US informal value for money; performance for cost: this cross between a sports car and a family sedan gave a lot of bang for the buck. bang (or knock or crack) people's heads together see head. get a bang out of North American informal derive excitement or pleasure from: some people get a bang out of reading that stuff. with a bang
1 abruptly: the remark brought me down to earth with a bang.
2 impressively or spectacularly: the occasion went with a bang 
the day starts with a bang—the steep climb to the mountain top.PHRASAL VERBS bang away at informal do something in a persistent or dogged way: he was banging away at his novel. bang something out informal
1 play music noisily, enthusiastically, and typically unskillfully: Dad was annihilating a Beethoven sonata, banging out notes.
2 produce hurriedly or in great quantities: they weren't banging out ads in my day the way they are now. bang someone/something up North American informal damage or injure someone or something: he banged up his knee. 
• British informal imprison someone: they've been banged up for something they didn't do.ORIGIN mid 16th century: imitative, perhaps of Scandinavian origin; compare with Old Norse bang ‘hammering.’
