be 
bē

▶verb (singular present am 
am
; are 
är
; is 
iz
; plural present are; first and third singular past was 
wəz, wäz
; second singular past and plural past were 
wər
; present subjunctive be; past subjunctive were; present participle being 
ˈbēiNG
; past participle been 
bin
)
1 (usually there is/are) exist: there are no easy answers 
there once was a man 
there must be something wrong 
I think, therefore I am. 
• be present: there is a boy sitting on the step 
there were no curtains around the showers 
Are there any castles in this area?
2 [with adverbial] occur; take place: the exhibition will be in November 
the opening event is on October
16 
that was before the war. 
• occupy a position in space: the Salvation Army store was on his left 
she was not at the window. 
• stay in the same place or condition: she was here until about ten-thirty 
he's a tough customer—let him be. 
• attend: the days when she was in school. 
• come; go; visit: he's from Missouri 
I have just been to Thailand 
the doctor's been here twice today.
3 [as copular verb] having the state, quality, identity, nature, role, etc., specified: Amy was 91 
the floor was uneven 
I want to be a teacher 
father was not well 
his hair's brown 
it will be Christmas soon 
“Be careful,” Mr. Carter said. 
• cost: the tickets were $25. 
• amount to: one and one is two 
two sixes are twelve. 
• represent: let A be a square matrix of order n. 
• signify: we were everything to each other. 
• consist of; constitute: the monastery was several three-story buildings.
4 informal say: when I got there, they were like “What are you doing here?” 
▶aux. verb
1 used with a present participle to form continuous tenses: they are coming 
he had been reading 
she will be waiting.
2 used with a past participle to form the passive mood: it was done 
it is said 
his book will be published.
3 [with infinitive] used to indicate something due to happen: construction is to begin next summer 
I was to meet him at 6:30. 
• used to express obligation or necessity: you are to follow these orders 
they said I was to remain on board. 
• used to express possibility: these snakes are to be found in North America 
she was nowhere to be seen. 
• used to hypothesize about something that might happen: if I were to lose 
if I was to tell you, you'd think I was crazy 
were she to cure me, what could I offer her?
4 archaic used with the past participle of intransitive verbs to form perfect tenses: I am returned 
all humanity is fallen. 
PHRASES
as/that was archaic as someone or something was previously called: General Dunstaple had married Miss Hughes that was. the be-all and end-all informal a feature of an activity or a way of life that is of greater importance than any other. be oneself act naturally, according to one's character and instincts. be that as it may see may1. been there, done that see there. not be oneself not feel well. -to-be [in combination] of the future: my bride-to-be.PHRASAL VERBS be about see about. be off go away; leave: he was anxious to be off.ORIGIN Old English bēon, an irregular and defective verb, whose full conjugation derives from several originally distinct verbs. The forms am and is are from an Indo-European root shared by Latin sum and est. The forms was and were are from an Indo-European root meaning ‘remain.’ The forms be and been are from an Indo-European root shared by Latin fui ‘I was,’ fio ‘I become’ and Greek phuein ‘bring forth, cause to grow.’ The origin of are is uncertain. usage: For a discussion of whether it is correct to say that must be he at the door and it is I rather than that must be him at the door and it is me, see usage at personal pronoun .
