behind 
bəˈhīnd

▶preposition
1 at or to the far side of (something), typically so as to be hidden by it: the recording machinery was kept behind screens 
the sun came out from behind a cloud. 
• underlying (something) but not apparent to the observer: the agony behind his decision to retire. 
• at the back of (someone), after they have passed through a door: she ran out of the room, slamming the door behind her.
2 in a line or procession, following or further back than (another member of the line or procession): stuck behind a slow-moving tractor.
3 in support of or giving guidance to (someone else): whatever you decide to do, I'll be behind you 
the power behind the throne. 
• guiding, controlling, or responsible for (an event or plan): the chances were that he was behind the death of the girl 
the reasoning behind their decisions.
4 after the departure or death of (the person referred to): he left behind him a manuscript that was subsequently published.
5 less advanced than (someone else) in achievement or development: the government admitted it is ten years behind the West in PC technology.
6 having a lower score than (another competitor): Woodnam moved to ten under par, five shots behind Fred Couples. 
▶adverb
1 at or to the far side or the back side of something: as I looked behind, my feet crashed into a basket 
Campbell grabbed him from behind.
2 in a place or time already past: the adventure lay behind them.
3 remaining after someone or something is gone: blocks of ice left behind by a retreating glacier 
don't leave me behind.
4 further back than other members of a group: Bill led the way, with the others a short distance behind.
5 (in a game or contest) having a score lower than that of the opposition: polls showed him as much as 50 points behind.
6 slow or late in accomplishing a task: getting behind with my work 
things were falling behind. 
• in arrears: she was behind with her rent. 
▶noun
1 informal the buttocks: sitting on her behind.
2 American Football a one-point score made by kicking the ball between the outer set of two sets of goalposts (the behind line), or by touching the ball, causing it to pass between the inner posts (goalposts). ORIGIN Old English behindan, bihindan, from bi ‘by’ + hindan ‘from behind.’
