believe 
bəˈlēv

▶verb [with object]
1 accept (something) as true; feel sure of the truth of: the superintendent believed Lancaster's story 
[with clause] : Christians believe that Jesus rose from the dead. 
• accept the statement of (someone) as true: he didn't believe her or didn't want to know. 
• [no object] have faith, especially religious faith: there are those on the fringes of the Church who do not really believe. 
• (believe something of someone) feel sure that (someone) is capable of a particular action: I wouldn't have believed it of Lois—what an extraordinary woman!
2 [with clause] hold (something) as an opinion; think or suppose: I believe we've already met 
things were not as bad as the experts believed 
humu-humu are, I believe, shrimp fritters 
(believe someone/something to be) : four men were believed to be trapped. 
PHRASES
be unable (or hardly able) to believe something be amazed by something: I couldn't believe what was happening 
Clarke could hardly believe his luck as he put the ball into the empty net. be unable (or hardly able) to believe one's eyes (or ears) be amazed by what one sees or hears: I couldn't believe my eyes when I opened the box.believe it or not used to concede that a proposition or statement is surprising: believe it or not, the speaker was none other than Horace. believe me (or believe you me) used to emphasize the truth of a statement or assertion: believe me, she is a shrewd woman.don't you believe it! used to express disbelief in the truth of a statement: he says he is left of center, but don't you believe it. would you believe it? used to express surprise at something one is relating: they're still arguing, would you believe it?PHRASAL VERBS believe in
1 have faith in the truth or existence of: I believe in ghosts.
2 be of the opinion that (something) is right, proper, or desirable: I don't believe in censorship of the arts 
he didn't believe in sex before marriage.
3 have confidence in (a person or a course of action): he had finally begun to believe in her.ORIGIN late Old English belȳfan, belēfan, alteration of gelēfan, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch geloven and German glauben, also to lief .
