better
1 
ˈbedər

▶adjective
1 of a more excellent or effective type or quality: hoping for better weather 
the new facilities were far better 
I'm better at algebra than Alice. [comparative of good .] 
• more appropriate, advantageous, or well advised: there couldn't be a better time to start this job 
it might be better to borrow the money.
2 [predicative] partly or fully recovered from illness, injury, or mental stress; less unwell: she's much better today 
his leg was getting better 
we'll feel a lot better after a decent night's sleep. [comparative of well1 .] 
▶adverb more excellently or effectively: Johnny could do better if he tried 
instruments are generally better made these days. 
• to a greater degree; more: I liked it better when we lived in the country 
you may find alternatives that suit you better. 
• more suitably, appropriately, or usefully: the money could be better spent on more urgent cases. [ comparative of well1 .] 
▶noun
1 the better one; that which is better: the Natural History Museum book is by far the better of the two 
a change for the better.
2 (one's betters) chiefly dated or humorous one's superiors in social class or ability: amusing themselves by imitating their betters. 
▶verb [with object] improve on or surpass (an existing or previous level or achievement): bettering his previous time by ten minutes. 
• make (something) better; improve: his ideas for bettering the working conditions. 
• (better oneself) achieve a better social position or status: the residents are mostly welfare mothers who have bettered themselves. 
• overcome or defeat (someone): she bettered him at archery. 
PHRASES
be better off be in a better position, especially in financial terms: the promotion would make her about $750 a year better off 
(as plural noun the better off) : a paper read mainly by the better off. the —— the better used to emphasize the importance or desirability of the quality or thing specified: the sooner we're off, the better 
the more people there the better. the better part of almost all of; most of: it is the better part of a mile. better safe than sorry proverb it's wiser to be cautious than to be hasty or rash and so do something you may later regret. better than North American more than: he'd lived there for better than twenty years. the better to —— so as to —— better: he leaned closer the better to hear her. for better or (for) worse whether the outcome is good or bad: ours, for better or for worse, is the century of youth. get the better of (often of something immaterial) win an advantage over (someone); defeat or outwit: curiosity got the better of her. go one better narrowly surpass a previous effort or achievement: I want to go one better this time and score. 
• narrowly outdo (another person): he went one better than Jack by reaching the finals. had better do something would find it wiser to do something; ought to do something: you had better be careful. have the better of be more successful in a contest: she usually had the better of these debates. no (or little) better than just (or almost) the same as; merely: government officials who were often no better than bandits.ORIGIN Old English betera (adjective), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch beter and German besser, also to best . usage:
1 In the verb phrase had better do something, the word had acts like an auxiliary verb; in informal spoken contexts, it is often dropped, as in you better not come tonight. In writing, the had may be contracted to ’d ( you'd better call), but it should not be dropped altogether (not you better call).
2 On the punctuation of better in compound adjectives, see usage at well1 .
