between 
bəˈtwēn 
(abbreviation bet.) 
▶preposition
1 at, into, or across the space separating (two objects or regions): the border between Mexico and the United States 
the dog crawled between us and lay down at our feet 
those who travel by train between London and Paris.
2 in the period separating (two points in time): they snack between meals 
the long, cold nights between autumn and spring.
3 in the interval separating (two points on a scale): a man aged between
18 and 30 
between 25 and 40 percent off children's clothes 
the difference between income and expenditure.
4 indicating a connection or relationship involving two or more parties: the relationship between Pauline and Chris 
negotiations between the two companies are continuing 
links between science and industry. 
• with reference to a collision or conflict: a collision in midair between two light aircraft above Geneva 
the wars between Carthage and Rome. 
• with reference to a choice or differentiation involving two or more things being considered together: if you have to choose between two or three different options.
5 by combining the resources or actions of (two or more people or other entities): we have created something between us 
oxygen and nitrogen between them account for 99 per cent of air. 
• shared by (two or more people or things): they had drunk between them a bottle of Chianti. 
▶adverb
1 in or along the space separating two objects or regions: layers of paper with tar in between 
from Leipzig to Dresden, with the gentle Elbe flowing between.
2 in the period separating two points in time: sets of exercises with no rest in between. 
PHRASES
between ourselves (or you and me) in confidence: just between you and me, I don't think it is going to happen.(in) between times in the intervals between other actions: I have seen to the needs of my child, and in between times I have cooked the meals.ORIGIN Old English betwēonum, from be ‘by’ + a Germanic word related to two . usage:
1 Between is used in speaking of two things, people, etc.: we must choose between two equally unattractive alternatives. Among is used for collective and undefined relations of usually three or more: agreement on landscaping was reached among all the neighbors. But where there are more than two parties involved, between may be used to express one-to-one relationships of pairs within the group or the sense 'shared by': there is close friendship between the members of the club; diplomatic relations between the US, Canada, and Mexico.
2 Between you and I, between you and he, etc., are incorrect; between should be followed only by the objective case: between you and me, between you and him, etc. See also usage at personal pronoun .
