big 
biɡ

▶adjective (bigger, biggest)
1 of considerable size, extent, or intensity: big hazel eyes 
big buildings 
big cuts in staff. 
• [attributive] of a large or the largest size: my big toe. 
• grown up: I'm a big girl now. 
• elder: my big sister. 
• [attributive] informal doing a specified action very often or on a very large scale: a big eater 
a big gambler. 
• informal on an ambitiously large scale: a small company with big plans. 
• showing great enthusiasm: a big tennis fan 
he tells me the Inuits of the Arctic are very big on Jim Reeves. 
• (big with) archaic advanced in pregnancy: my wife was big with child 
figurative : a word big with fate.
2 of considerable importance or seriousness: it's a big decision 
Mark's biggest problem is money 
he made a big mistake. 
• informal popular or exciting interest among the public: Latino bands that are big in Los Angeles. 
• informal holding an important position or playing an influential role: as a senior in college, he was a big man on campus.
3 [predicative] informal, often ironic generous: “I'm inclined to take pity on you.” “That's big of you!” 
▶noun (the bigs) North American informal the major league in a professional sport: the day he made it to the bigs, he forgot every minor league ballpark he ever played in. 
PHRASES
big bucks informal large amounts of money, especially as pay or profit: Emily earns big bucks on Wall Street. the big idea chiefly ironic a clever or important intention or scheme: okay, what's the big idea? the big lie a gross distortion or misrepresentation of the facts, especially when used as a propaganda device by a politician or official body. the big screen informal the movies: the play was adapted for the big screen. big shot 
ˈbiɡ ˌSHät 
informal an important or influential person. big stick 
ˌbiɡ ˈstik 
informal the use or threat of force or power: the authorities used quiet persuasion instead of a big stick. the Big Three, (Four, etc.) informal the dominant group of three, four, etc.: increased competition between the Big Three networks.big (or heavy) with child archaic pregnant. go over big informal have a great effect; be a success: the story went over big with the children. in a big way informal on a large scale; with great enthusiasm: he contributed to the project in a big way 
they went for it in a big way. make it big informal become very successful or famous: Simon had made it big in the financial world. talk big informal talk boastfully or overconfidently: he talked big, blinding her with legal jargon. think big informal be ambitious: to trade in a heavyweight world market we must think big. too big for one's britches (or breeches) informal conceited.DERIVATIVES biggish adjective. bigness 
ˈbiɡnəs 
nounORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘strong, mighty’): of unknown origin.
