black 
▶adjective
1 a black horse: dark, pitch-black, jet-black, coal-black, ebony, sable, inky. ANTONYMS white.
2 a black night: unlit, dark, starless, moonless, wan; literary tenebrous, Stygian. ANTONYMS clear, bright.
3 thirty-seven percent of the school's students are black
4 the blackest day of the war: tragic, disastrous, calamitous, catastrophic, cataclysmic, fateful, wretched, woeful, awful, terrible; formal grievous. ANTONYMS joyful.
5 Mary was in a black mood: miserable, unhappy, sad, wretched, broken-hearted, heartbroken, grief-stricken, grieving, sorrowful, sorrowing, anguished, desolate, despairing, disconsolate, downcast, dejected, sullen, cheerless, melancholy, morose, gloomy, glum, mournful, doleful, funereal, dismal, forlorn, woeful, abject; informal blue; literary dolorous. ANTONYMS cheerful.
6 black humor: cynical, macabre, weird, unhealthy, ghoulish, morbid, perverted, gruesome; informal sick.
7 a black look: angry, vexed, cross, irritated, incensed. See also angry (sense 1). ANTONYMS pleased.
8 archaic a black deed: wicked, evil, heinous, villainous, bad. See also wicked (sense 1). ANTONYMS virtuous.
PHRASES
black out he blacked out from the pain: faint, lose consciousness, pass out, swoon; informal go out. black something out we blacked out our homes during the war: darken, shade, turn off the lights in; keep the light out of. in the black our business is finally in the black: solvent, debt-free, out of debt, in credit, financially sound, able to pay one's debts, creditworthy. black and white
1 a black-and-white picture: monochrome, gray-scale.
2 I wish to see the proposals in black and white: in print, printed, written down, set down, on paper, recorded, on record, documented.
3 in black-and-white terms: categorical, unequivocal, absolute, uncompromising, unconditional, unqualified, unambiguous, clear, clear-cut. 
USAGE
black Black, designating Americans of African heritage, became the most widely used and accepted term in the 1960s and 1970s, replacing Negro. It is not usually capitalized: black Americans, or blacks in Congress, for example. Through the 1980s, the more formal African American replaced black in much usage, but both are now generally acceptable. Afro-American, first recorded in the 19th century and popular in the 1960s and 1970s, is now heard mostly in anthropological and cultural contexts. Colored people, common in the early part of the 20th century, is now usually regarded as offensive, although the phrase survives in the full name of the NAACP, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. An inversion, people of color, has gained some favor, but is also used in reference to other nonwhite ethnic groups: a gathering spot for African Americans and other people of color interested in reading about their cultures.Usage notes show additional guidance on finer points of English usage.
