business 
ˈbiznəs

▶noun
1 a person's regular occupation, profession, or trade: she had to do a lot of smiling in her business 
are you here on business? 
• an activity that someone is engaged in: what is your business here? 
• a person's concern: it's not my business to interfere 
the neighbors make it their business to know all about you. 
• work that has to be done or matters that have to be attended to: government business 
let's get down to business.
2 the practice of making one's living by engaging in commerce: the world of business 
whom do you do business with in Manila? 
the jewelry business 
[as modifier] : the business community. 
• trade considered in terms of its volume or profitability: how's business? 
• a commercial operation or company: a catering business.
3 [in singular] informal an affair or series of events, typically a scandalous or discreditable one: they must be told about this blackmailing business. 
• informal a group of related or previously mentioned things: use carrots, cauliflower, and broccoli, and serve the whole business hot.
4 theatrical slang actions other than dialogue performed by actors: a piece of business.
5 informal a scolding; harsh verbal criticism: the supervisor really gave him the business. 
PHRASES
business as usual an unchanging state of affairs despite difficulties or disturbances: apart from being under new management, it's business as usual in the department. have no business have no right to do something or be somewhere: he had no business tampering with social services. in business operating, especially in commerce: they will have to import from overseas to remain in business. 
• informal able to begin operations: if you'll contact the right people, I think we'll be in business. in the business of engaged in or prepared to engage in: I am not in the business of making accusations. like nobody's business informal to an extraordinarily high degree or standard: these weeds spread like nobody's business. mean business be in earnest. mind one's own business refrain from meddling in other people's affairs: he was yelling at her to get out and mind her own business. be none of one's business not be of direct relevance or concern to one: their finances are none of your business 
what goes on between Gabriel and me is none of your business. send someone about his/her business dated tell someone to go away.ORIGIN Old English bisignis (see busy, -ness). The sense in Old English was ‘anxiety’; the sense ‘the state of being busy’ was used from Middle English down to the 18th century, but is now differentiated as busyness. The sense ‘an appointed task’ dates from late Middle English, and from it all the other current senses have developed.
