but
1 
bət

▶conjunction
1 used to introduce something contrasting with what has already been mentioned. 
• nevertheless; however: he stumbled but didn't fall 
this is one principle, but it is not the only one. 
• on the contrary; in contrast: I am clean but you are dirty 
the problem is not that they are cutting down trees, but that they are doing it in a predatory way.
2 [with negative or in questions] used to indicate the impossibility of anything other than what is being stated: one cannot but sympathize 
there was nothing they could do but swallow their pride 
they had no alternative but to follow.
3 used to introduce a response expressing a feeling such as surprise or anger: but that's an incredible saving! 
but why?
4 used after an expression of apology for what one is about to say: I'm sorry, but I can't pay you.
5 [with negative] archaic without its being the case that: it never rains but it pours. 
▶preposition except; apart from; other than: in Texas, we were never anything but poor 
I trusted no one but him 
the last but one. 
• used with repetition of certain words to give emphasis: nobody, but nobody, was going to stop her. 
▶adverb no more than; only: he is but a shadow of his former self 
choose from a colorful array of oranges, cherries, and raspberries, to name but a few. 
▶noun an argument against something; an objection: no buts—just get out of here 
as with all these proposals, ifs and buts abound. 
PHRASES
all but see all. anything but see anything. but for except for: I walked along Broadway, deserted but for the occasional cab. 
• if it were not for: the game could be over but for you. but that archaic other than that; except that: who knows but that the pictures painted on air are eternal. but then after all; on the other hand (introducing a contrasting comment): it couldn't help, but then again, it probably couldn't hurt 
it's a very hard exam, but then they all are.ORIGIN Old English be-ūtan, būtan, būta ‘outside, without, except’ (see by, out) . usage: For advice about using but and other conjunctions to begin a sentence, see usage at and .
