call 
kôl

▶verb
1 [with object and complement] give (an infant or animal) a specified name: they called their daughter Hannah. 
• (be called) have a specified name: she is called Eva 
a 1942 mystery called Time To Kill. 
• address or refer to (someone) by a specified name, title, endearment, or term of abuse: please call me Lucy 
if he remains quiet she calls him a wimp. 
• refer to, consider, or describe (someone or something) as being: he's the only person I would call a friend.
2 [with object] cry out (a word or words): he heard an insistent voice calling his name 
Meredith was already calling out a greeting. 
• cry out to (someone) in order to summon them or attract their attention: she heard Terry calling her 
[no object] : I distinctly heard you call. 
• [no object] (of an animal, especially a bird) make its characteristic cry: overhead, a skylark called. 
• shout out or chant (the steps and figures) to people performing a square dance or country dance. 
• Bridge make (a particular bid) during the auction: her partner called 6♠. 
• North American informal claim (a privilege) for oneself, typically by shouting out a particular word or set phrase: I call first dibs on the bathroom.
3 [with object] contact or attempt to contact (a person or number) by phone: could I call you back? 
at the first sign of heart-attack symptoms call 911 immediately. 
• summon (something, especially an emergency service or a taxi) by telephone: her husband called an ambulance.
4 [with object] order or request the attendance of: representatives of all three teams have been called to appear before the stewards 
I got a letter calling me for an interview. 
• bring (a witness) into court to give evidence: four expert witnesses were called. 
• cause (someone) to have a strong urge to choose a particular career or way of life: he was called to the priesthood 
I think teachers, really good teachers, are called to teach.
5 [with object] announce or decide that (an event, especially a meeting, strike, or election) is to happen: there appeared to be no alternative but to call a general election 
she intends to call a meeting of the committee early next week 
the Allied forces called a ceasefire.
6 [no object] chiefly British (of a person) pay a brief visit: he called around last night looking for you 
he had promised Celia he would call in at the clinic.
7 [with object and complement] (of an umpire or other official in a game) pronounce (a ball, stroke, or other action) to be the thing specified: the linesman called the ball wide. 
• [with object] predict the result of (a future event, especially an election or a vote): in the Northeast, the race remains too close to call 
few pundits risked calling the election for either Bush or Kerry. 
• [with object] guess (the outcome) of tossing a coin: Burnley called heads and won the toss 
[no object] : “You call,” he said. “Heads or tails?”
8 [with object] Computing cause (a subroutine) to be executed: one subroutine may call another subroutine (or itself). 
▶noun
1 a cry made as a summons or to attract someone's attention: a nearby fisherman heard their calls for help 
in response to the call, a figure appeared. 
• [with modifier] a series of notes sounded on a brass instrument as a signal to do something: a bugle call to rise at 5:30. 
• a direction in a square dance given by the caller. 
• Bridge a bid, response, or double: the alternative call of 2♠ would be quite unsound.
2 the characteristic cry of a bird or other animal: it is best distinguished by its call, a loud “pwit” 
• a device used to imitate the cry of a particular bird or other animal: turkeys in the wild don't sound like most turkey calls 
he bought a duck call at the store 
most hunters I know have at least one call tucked away in a pocket.
3 an instance of speaking to someone on the phone or attempting to contact someone by phone: I'll give you a call at around five 
he stopped returning her calls 
a ten-minute call to the emergency services.
4 a brief social visit: we paid a call on Howard. 
• a visit or journey made by a doctor or other professional in response to a request for help, especially in an emergency situation: the ambulance is out on a call 
the district nurse used to make her calls on a bicycle.
5 an appeal or demand for something to happen or be done: the call for action was welcomed 
a call to all sides to remain calm and refrain from violence 
there are more and more calls on his time. 
• [usually with negative] (call for) demand or need for (goods or services): there was little call for work as sophisticated as his.
6 [in singular] an order or request for someone to be present: he was delighted that so many former players had heeded the call to attend the conference. 
• a vocation: feeling the call to ministry, I started looking for a Bible college. 
• a powerful force of attraction: hikers can't resist the call of the Sierras.
7 (in sports) a decision or ruling made by an umpire or other official, traditionally conveyed by a shout, that the ball has gone out of play or that a rule has been breached: he was visibly irritated with the umpire's calls. 
• a decision, judgement, or prediction: personally, I'm all in favor, but it's your call 
that entrepreneurial instinct may account for his ability to make tough calls when profits are at stake 
the two old foes are so evenly matched that it's anyone's call.
8 Computing a command to execute a subroutine: parameter values may be changed by calls to a special purpose input specification subroutine.
9 Finance a demand for payment of lent or unpaid capital. 
• Stock Market short for call option.
10 [as modifier] US (in a bar, club, etc.) denoting or made with relatively expensive brands of liquor which customers request by name. Compare with well2 ( sense
4 of the noun): $6 call liquor drinks. 
PHRASES
call attention to cause people to notice: he is seeking to call attention to himself by his crimes. call someone's bluff see bluff1. call collect North American make a telephone call reversing the charges. call something into play cause or require something to start working so that one can make use of it: our active participation as spectators is called into play. call something into (or in) question cast doubt on something: these findings call into question the legitimacy of the proceedings. call it a day see day. call someone names see name. call of nature see nature. call the shots (or tune) take the initiative in deciding how something should be done: we believe in parents and teachers calling the shots.call a spade a spade see spade1. call someone to account see account. call someone/something to mind cause one to think of someone or something, especially through similarity: the still lifes call to mind certain of Cézanne's works. 
• [with negative] remember someone or something: [with clause] : I cannot call to mind where I have seen you. call someone/something to order ask those present at a meeting to be silent so that business may proceed. don't call us, we'll call you informal used as a dismissive way of saying that someone has not been successful in an audition or a job application. good call (or bad call) informal used to express approval (or criticism) of a person's decision or suggestion. [with reference to decisions made by referees or umpires.]on call
1 (of a person) able to be contacted in order to provide a professional service if necessary, but not formally on duty: our technicians are on call around the clock.
2 (of money lent) repayable on demand. to call one's own used to describe something that one can genuinely feel belongs to one: I had not an item to call my own. within call near enough to be summoned by calling: she moved into the guest room, within call of her father's room.PHRASAL VERBS call for
1 make necessary: desperate times call for desperate measures.
2 publicly ask for or demand: the report calls for an audit of endangered species.
3 North American predict or describe (the likely weather conditions) for a period of time in the future: the forecast is calling for more rain 
they're calling for temperatures in the 80s for the rest of the week.
4 chiefly British stop to pick up (someone) at the place where they are living or working: I'll call for you around seven. call something forth elicit a response: few things call forth more compassion. call someone/something down
1 cause or provoke someone or something to appear or occur: nothing called down the wrath of Nemesis quicker.
2 dated reprimand someone: he called down Clarence Drum about being so high and mighty. call someone in enlist someone's aid or services: you can either do the work yourself or call in a local builder to help you. call something in require payment of a loan or promise of money: the bank would call in loans and foreign donations. call someone/something off order a person or dog to stop attacking someone: Gunda pleaded with him to call the dog off. call something off cancel an event or agreement: they held a ballot on whether to call off industrial action. call on
1 pay a visit to (someone): he's planning to call on Katherine today.
2 (also call upon) have recourse to: we are able to call on academic staff with a wide variety of expertise. 
• [with infinitive] demand that (someone) do something: he called on the government to hold a plebiscite. call someone out
1 summon someone, especially to deal with an emergency or to do repairs: patients are to be told to stop calling doctors out unnecessarily at night.
2 (also call someone out on something, call someone on something) North American draw critical attention to someone’s unacceptable actions or behavior: people were calling him out for his negative comments 
Dan had called her out on a couple of contradictions in her story 
she called him on his claim that the media were doing a bad job of covering the economy.
3 order or advise workers to strike.
4 archaic challenge someone to a duel. call something over dated read out a list of names to determine those present: a gentleman proceeded to call over the names of the jury. call someone up
1 informal, chiefly North American phone someone: I have a list of people to call up in the morning.
2 summon someone to serve in the army: they have called up more than 20,000 reservists. 
• select someone to play on a team, especially at a higher level of competition: he was called up from Columbus to finish the season with the Yankees. call something up summon for use something that is stored or kept available: icons that allow you to call up a graphic. 
• evoke something: the special effects that called up the Mars landscape were impressive.ORIGIN late Old English ceallian, from Old Norse kalla ‘summon loudly.’
