care 
ker

▶noun
1 the provision of what is necessary for the health, welfare, maintenance, and protection of someone or something: the care of the elderly 
the child is safe in the care of her grandparents 
health care.
2 serious attention or consideration applied to doing something correctly or to avoid damage or risk: he planned his departure with great care. 
• an object of concern or attention: the cares of family life. 
• a feeling of or occasion for anxiety: she was driving along without a care in the world. 
▶verb [no object]
1 [often with negative] feel concern or interest; attach importance to something: they don't care about human life 
[with clause] : I don't care what she says. 
• feel affection or liking: you care very deeply for him. 
• (care for something/care to do something) like or be willing to do or have something: would you care for some tea? 
I don't care to listen to him.
2 (care for) look after and provide for the needs of: he has numerous animals to care for. 
PHRASES
care of at the address of: write to me care of Anne. I (or he, she, etc.) couldn't (or informal also could) care less informal used to express complete indifference: he couldn't care less about football. for all you care (or he, she, etc., cares) informal used to indicate that someone feels no interest or concern: I could drown for all you care.have a care [often in imperative] dated be cautious: “Have a care!” she warned. take care
1 [often in imperative] be cautious; keep oneself safe: take care if you're planning to go out tonight. 
• said to someone on leaving them: take care, see you soon.
2 [with infinitive] make sure of doing something: he would take care to provide himself with an escape clause. take care of
1 keep (someone or something) safe and provided for: I can take care of myself.
2 deal with (something): he has the tools to take care of the electrical problem.ORIGIN Old English caru (noun), carian (verb), of Germanic origin; related to Old High German chara ‘grief, lament,’ charon ‘grieve,’ and Old Norse kǫr ‘sickbed.’
