catch 
▶verb
1 he caught the ball: seize, grab, snatch, take hold of, grasp, grip, trap, clutch, clench; receive, get, intercept. ANTONYMS drop.
2 we've caught the thief: capture, seize; apprehend, arrest, take prisoner/captive, take into custody; trap, snare, ensnare; net, hook, land; informal nab, collar, run in, bust. ANTONYMS release.
3 her heel caught in a hole: become trapped, become entangled, snag.
4 she caught the last bus: be in time for, make, get; board, get on, step aboard. ANTONYMS miss.
5 they were caught siphoning gas: discover, find, come upon/across, stumble on, chance on; surprise, catch red-handed, catch in the act.
6 it caught his imagination: engage, capture, attract, draw, grab, grip, seize; hold, absorb, engross.
7 she caught a trace of aftershave: perceive, notice, observe, discern, detect, note, make out. ANTONYMS miss.
8 I couldn't catch what she was saying: hear, perceive, discern, make out; understand, comprehend, grasp, apprehend; informal get, get the drift of, figure out.
9 it caught the flavor of the sixties: evoke, conjure up, call to mind, recall, encapsulate, capture.
10 the blow caught her on the side of her face: hit, strike, slap, smack, bang. ANTONYMS miss.
11 he caught malaria: become infected with, contract, get, fall ill with, be taken ill with, develop, come down with, be struck down with. ANTONYMS escape.
12 the kindling wouldn't catch: ignite, start burning, catch fire, kindle.
▶noun
1 he inspected the catch: haul, net, bag, yield.
2 he secured the catch: latch, lock, fastener, clasp, hasp.
3 it looks great, but there's a catch: snag, disadvantage, drawback, stumbling block, hitch, fly in the ointment, pitfall, complication, problem, hiccup, difficulty; trap, trick, snare; informal catch-22.
PHRASES
catch on
1 radio soon caught on: become popular, become fashionable, take off, boom, flourish, thrive.
2 I caught on fast: understand, comprehend, learn, see the light; informal latch on, get the picture, get the message, get wise. catch up to police didn’t catch up to him until he stopped for gas and food: reach; be even with; gain on, close in on.
