charge 
▶verb
1 he didn't charge much: ask in payment, ask, levy, demand, want, exact; bill, invoice.
2 the subscription will be charged to your account: bill, debit from, take from.
3 two men were charged with theft: accuse of, indict for, arraign for, arraign on a charge of; prosecute for, try for, put on trial for, inculpate for.
4 they charged him with reforming the system: entrust, burden, encumber, saddle, tax.
5 the cavalry charged the tanks: attack, storm, assault, assail, fall on, swoop on, descend on; informal lay into, tear into.
6 we charged into the crowd: rush, storm, stampede, push, plow, launch oneself, go headlong, steam, barrel, zoom.
7 his work was charged with energy: suffuse, pervade, permeate, saturate, infuse, imbue, load, fill.
8 I charge you to stop: order, command, direct, instruct, enjoin; formal adjure; literary bid.
▶noun
1 all customers pay a charge: fee, payment, price, tariff, amount, sum, fare, levy.
2 he pleaded guilty to the charge: accusation, allegation, indictment, arraignment.
3 an infantry charge: attack, assault, offensive, onslaught, drive, push, thrust.
4 the child was in her charge: care, protection, safekeeping, control; custody, guardianship, wardship; hands.
5 his charge was to save the business: duty, responsibility, task, job, assignment, mission, function; informal marching orders.
6 the safety of my charge: ward, protégé, dependent.
7 the judge gave a careful charge to the jury: instruction, direction, directive, order, command, dictate, exhortation.
8 informal I get a real charge out of working hard: thrill, tingle, glow; excitement, stimulation, enjoyment, pleasure; informal kick, buzz, rush.
PHRASES
in charge of I'm in charge of museum security: responsible for, in control of, in command of, at the helm/wheel of; managing, running, administering, directing, supervising, overseeing, controlling. CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD See attack .These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.REFLECTIONS Joshua Ferrischarge It looks dull but it’s wonderfully diverse. The noun form alone contains sixteen definitions, according to the Oxford English Dictionary, among them these two: that of a duty, or responsibility (Cara’s main charge was to raise the two boys properly); and that of an accusation (Cara was charged with two counts of infanticide). In the first instance, the subject is elected; in the second, damned. Like John Gardner’s distinction that all fiction falls into one of two categories (the hero goes on a quest or a stranger comes to town), the word charge neatly situates fiction into the elected or the damned. The best fiction does both. Dante is charged with touring hell, to survey the diverse and sundry charged; Humbert Humbert’s charge leads to the damnable charges of which he is clearly guilty; Hamlet charges himself with inaction, cowardice, and insanity until at last he executes his charge.Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
