class 
▶noun
1 a hotel of the first class: category, grade, rating, classification, group, grouping.
2 a new class of heart drug: kind, sort, type, variety, genre, brand; species, genus, breed, strain, stripe.
3 the middle class: social division, social stratum, rank, level, echelon, group, grouping, income group; social status; dated estate; archaic condition.
4 a math class: lesson, period; seminar, tutorial, workshop, study group.
5 informal a woman of class: style, stylishness, elegance, chic, sophistication, taste, refinement, quality, excellence.
▶verb the 12-seater is classed as a commercial vehicle: classify, categorize, group, grade; order, sort, codify; bracket, designate, label, pigeonhole.
▶adjective informal a class player: classy, decent, gracious, respectable, noble.REFLECTIONS Michael Dirdaclass Class —meaning socioeconomic status—now carries loads of connotation, but often very little meaning. How does one determine a person's 'class'? Nowadays, millionaires regard themselves as working stiffs or, at best, as middle class. A salaried employee earning $100,000 a year feels poor if all his neighbors make twice that just from their stock portfolios. In other words, there are no clear markers. Should ghetto drug-lords with shiny BMWs be viewed as members of the 'underclass'? Is the owner of a Kwik-E-Mart who pays two college kids to run the register and stock the shelves in the same class as an autoworker at the Ford assembly plant? What if the small-time entrepreneur takes home only $30,000 a year, while the grunt on the line earns $60,000? Nobody, of course, ever admits to being upper class. People with private jets will quietly murmur, after a self-deprecating smile, “Oh, we're just comfortable,” or even “We're getting by.” In summarizing people's economic status, just say what you think: He's rich, she's poor. Better yet, describe the actual conditions of life: The Smiths reside in a tract house that cost $40,000, and they can barely afford the mortgage.Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
