clear 
▶adjective
1 clear instructions: understandable, comprehensible, intelligible, plain, uncomplicated, explicit, lucid, coherent, simple, straightforward, unambiguous, clear-cut, crystal clear; formal perspicuous. ANTONYMS vague.
2 a clear case of harassment: obvious, evident, plain, crystal clear; sure, definite, unmistakable, manifest, indisputable, patent, incontrovertible, irrefutable, beyond doubt, beyond question; palpable, visible, discernible, conspicuous, overt, blatant, glaring; as plain as day, as plain as the nose on one's face. ANTONYMS vague, possible.
3 clear water: transparent, limpid, pellucid, translucent, crystal clear; unclouded. ANTONYMS murky, opaque.
4 a clear blue sky: bright, cloudless, unclouded, without a cloud in the sky. ANTONYMS cloudy.
5 her clear complexion: unblemished, spot-free. ANTONYMS spotty, pimply.
6 Rosa's clear voice: distinct, bell-like, as clear as a bell. ANTONYMS muffled.
7 the road was clear 
a clear view: unobstructed, unblocked, passable, unrestricted, open, unhindered. ANTONYMS limited, obstructed.
8 a clear conscience: untroubled, undisturbed, unperturbed, unconcerned, having no qualms; peaceful, at peace, tranquil, serene, calm, easy. ANTONYMS guilty.
▶adverb
1 stand clear of the doors: away from, apart from, at a (safe) distance from, out of contact with.
2 Tommy's voice came loud and clear: distinctly, clearly, as clear as a bell, plainly, audibly.
3 he has time to get clear away: completely, entirely, fully, wholly, totally, utterly; informal clean.
▶verb
1 the sky cleared briefly: brighten (up), lighten, clear up, become bright/brighter, become light/lighter, become sunny.
2 the drizzle had cleared: disappear, go away, end; peter out, fade, wear off, decrease, lessen, diminish.
3 together they cleared the table: empty, unload, unburden, strip.
4 clearing drains: unblock, unstop.
5 staff cleared the building: evacuate, empty; leave.
6 Karen cleared the dirty dishes: remove, take away, carry away, tidy up.
7 I cleared the bar on my first attempt: go over, pass over, sail over; jump (over), vault (over), leap (over), hurdle.
8 he was cleared by an appeals court: acquit, declare innocent, find not guilty; absolve, exonerate; informal let off (the hook); formal exculpate.
9 I was cleared to work on the atomic project: authorize, give permission, permit, allow, pass, accept, endorse, license, sanction, give approval, give consent; informal OK, give the OK, give the thumbs up, give the green light, give the go-ahead.
10 I cleared $50,000 profit: net, make/realize a profit of, take home, pocket; gain, earn, make, get, bring in, pull in.
PHRASES
clear out
1 informal we were told to clear out immediately. See leave1 (sense 1).
2 we cleared out the junk room: empty (out); tidy (up), declutter, clean up, clear up.
3 clear out the old equipment: get rid of, throw out/away, discard, dispose of, dump, scrap, jettison; informal chuck (out), deep-six, ditch, trash. clear up
1 I hope it clears up before the party. See clear (sense
1 of the verb).
2 we've cleared up the problem: solve, resolve, straighten out, find an/the answer to; get to the bottom of, explain; informal crack, figure out.
