cloud 
kloud

▶noun
1 a visible mass of condensed water vapor floating in the atmosphere, typically high above the ground: the sun had disappeared behind a cloud 
the full moon, hidden by veils of cloud. 
• an indistinct or billowing mass, especially of smoke or dust: a cloud of dust. 
• a large number of insects or birds moving together: clouds of orange butterflies. 
• a vague patch of color in or on a liquid or transparent surface.
2 a state or cause of gloom, suspicion, trouble, or worry: the only cloud to appear on the horizon was Leopold's unexpected illness 
a black cloud hung over their lives. 
• a frowning or depressed look: a cloud passed over Jessica's face.
3 (often the cloud) Computing a network of remote servers hosted on the Internet and used to store, manage, and process data in place of local servers or personal computers: $13 per month gets you 25GB of storage in the cloud 
[as modifier] : once you are logged in to your cloud storage space, you can upload files to it and share them with others. 
▶verb
1 [no object] (of the sky) become overcast with clouds: the blue skies clouded over abruptly. 
• [with object] darken (the sky) with clouds: the western sky was still clouded.
2 make or become less clear or transparent: [with object] : blood pumped out, clouding the water 
[no object] : her eyes clouded with tears. 
• [with object] make (a matter or mental process) unclear or uncertain; confuse: don't allow your personal feelings to cloud your judgment. 
• [with object] spoil or mar (something): the general election was clouded by violence.
3 [no object] (of someone's face or eyes) show worry, sorrow, or anger: his expression clouded over. 
• [with object] (of such an emotion such as worry, sorrow, or anger) show in (someone's face): suspicion clouded her face. 
PHRASES
every cloud has a silver lining see silver. have one's head in the clouds (of a person) be out of touch with reality; be daydreaming. in the clouds out of touch with reality: this clergyman was in the clouds. on cloud nine extremely happy. [with reference to a ten-part classification of clouds in which “nine” was next to the highest.]under a cloud under suspicion; discredited: he left under something of a cloud, accused of misappropriating funds.DERIVATIVES cloudlet 
ˈkloudlət 
nounORIGIN Old English clūd ‘mass of rock or earth’; probably related to clot. Sense
1 of the noun dates from Middle English.
