commission 
kəˈmiSHən 
(abbreviation comm.) 
▶noun
1 an instruction, command, or duty given to a person or group of people: his commission to redesign the building 
he received a commission to act as an informer. 
• an order for something, especially a work of art, to be produced: Mozart at last received a commission to write an opera. 
• a work produced in response to a commission. 
• archaic the authority to perform a task or certain duties.
2 a group of people officially charged with a particular function: the United Nations High Commission for Refugees.
3 an amount of money, typically a set percentage of the value involved, paid to an agent in a commercial transaction: foreign banks may charge a commission 
he sold cosmetics on commission.
4 a warrant conferring the rank of officer in an army, navy, or air force: he has resigned his commission.
5 the action of committing a crime or offense: use of a deadly weapon in the commission of a felony. 
▶verb [with object]
1 give an order for or authorize the production of (something such as a building, piece of equipment, or work of art): the portrait was commissioned by his widow in 1792. 
• order or authorize (a person or organization) to do or produce something: they commissioned an architect to manage the building project.
2 bring (something newly produced, such as a factory or machine) into working condition: we had a few hiccups getting the heating equipment commissioned. 
• bring (a warship) into readiness for active service: the aircraft carrier Midway was commissioned in 1945.
3 appoint (someone) to the rank of officer in the armed services: he was commissioned after attending midshipman school 
(as adjective commissioned) : a commissioned officer. 
PHRASES
in commission (of a ship, vehicle, machine, etc.) in use or in service. out of commission not in service; not in working order. 
• (of a person) unable to work or function normally, especially through illness or injury.DERIVATIVES commissionable adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: via Old French from Latin commissio(n-), from committere ‘entrust’ (see commit) .
