course 
kôrs

▶noun
1 [in singular] the route or direction followed by a ship, aircraft, road, or river: the road adopts a tortuous course along the coast 
the new fleet changed course to join the other ships. 
• the way in which something progresses or develops: the course of history. 
• a procedure adopted to deal with a situation. 
• an area of land set aside and prepared for racing, golf, or another sport.
2 a dish, or a set of dishes served together, forming one of the successive parts of a meal: guests are offered a choice of main course 
[in combination] : a four-course meal.
3 a series of lectures or lessons in a particular subject, typically leading to a qualification: a business studies course. 
• Medicine a series of repeated treatments or doses of medication: the doctor prescribed a course of antibiotics.
4 Architecture a continuous horizontal layer of brick, stone, or other material in a building.
5 a pursuit of game (especially hares) with greyhounds by sight rather than scent.
6 the lowest sail on a square-rigged mast.
7 a set of adjacent strings on a guitar, lute, etc., tuned to the same note. 
▶verb
1 [no object] (of liquid) move without obstruction; flow: tears were coursing down her cheeks 
figurative : exultation coursed through him.
2 [with object] pursue (game, especially hares) with greyhounds using sight rather than scent: many of the hares coursed escaped unharmed 
[no object] : she would course for hares with her greyhounds. 
PHRASES
course of action a procedure adopted to deal with a situation: the wisest course of action is to tackle the problem at its source. the course of nature events or processes that are normal and to be expected: each man would, in the course of nature, have his private opinions. in the course of —
1 undergoing the specified process: a new text book was in the course of preparation.
2 during the specified period: he was a friend to many people in the course of his life. 
• during and as a part of the specified activity: they became friends in the course of their long walks. in the course of time as time goes by. in due course see due. a matter of course see matter. of course used to introduce an idea or turn of events as being obvious or to be expected: the point is, of course, that the puzzle itself is misleading. 
• used to give or emphasize agreement or permission: “Can I see you for a minute?” “Of course.” 
• introducing a qualification or admission: of course we've been in touch by phone, but I wanted to see things for myself. off course not following the intended route: the car went careering off course. on course following the intended route: he battled to keep the ship on course 
figurative : we need to spend money to get the economy back on course. run (or take) its course complete its natural development without interference: his illness had to run its course.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French cours, from Latin cursus, from curs- ‘run,’ from the verb currere .
