crash
1 
kraSH

▶verb
1 [no object] (of a vehicle) collide violently with an obstacle or another vehicle: the stolen car she was riding in crashed into a tree. 
• [with object] cause (a moving object) to collide with an obstacle or another vehicle. 
• (of an aircraft) fall from the sky and violently hit the land or sea: a jet crashed 200 yards from the school. 
• [with object] cause (an aircraft) to fall from the sky and land violently.
2 move or cause to move with force, speed, and sudden loud noise: [no object] : huge waves crashed down on us 
[with object] : she crashed down the telephone receiver. 
• [no object] make a sudden loud, deep noise: the thunder crashed.
3 [no object] informal (of a business, a market, or a price) fall suddenly and disastrously in value: silver prices crashed in early 1980.
4 [no object] Computing (of a machine, system, or software) fail suddenly: the project was postponed because the computer crashed. 
• chiefly North American (of a patient) suffer a cardiac arrest.
5 [with object] informal enter (a party) without an invitation or permission.
6 [no object] informal go to sleep, especially suddenly or in an improvised setting: I'll crash in the back of the van for a couple of hours. 
▶noun
1 a violent collision, typically of one vehicle with another or with an obstacle: a car crash. 
• an instance of an aircraft falling from the sky to hit the land or sea.
2 a sudden loud noise as of something breaking or hitting another object: he slammed the phone down with a crash.
3 a sudden disastrous drop in the value or price of something, especially shares of stock: a stock market crash 
the crash of 1987. 
• the sudden collapse of a business.
4 Computing a sudden failure which puts a system out of action. 
▶adjective done rapidly or urgently and involving a concentrated effort: a crash course in Italian. 
▶adverb with a sudden loud sound: crash went the bolt. 
PHRASES
crash and burn informal come to grief or fail spectacularly.ORIGIN late Middle English: imitative, perhaps partly suggested by craze and dash .
