cut 
▶verb
1 the knife slipped and cut his finger: gash, slash, lacerate, sever, slit, pierce, penetrate, wound, injure; scratch, graze, nick, incise, score; lance.
2 cut the pepper into small pieces: chop, cut up, slice, dice, cube, mince; carve, hash.
3 cut back the new growth to about half its length 
he should get his hair cut: trim, snip, clip, crop, barber, shear, shave; pare; prune, lop, dock; mow.
4 I went to cut some flowers: pick, pluck, gather; literary cull.
5 lettering had been cut into the stonework: carve, engrave, incise, etch, score; chisel, whittle.
6 the government cut public spending: reduce, cut back/down on, decrease, lessen, retrench, trim, slim down; rationalize, downsize, lower, slash, chop.
7 the text has been substantially cut: shorten, abridge, condense, abbreviate, truncate; edit; bowdlerize, expurgate.
8 you need to cut at least ten lines per page: delete, remove, take out, excise, blue-pencil, chop.
9 oil supplies to the area had been cut: discontinue, break off, suspend, interrupt; stop, end, put an end to.
10 the point where the line cuts the vertical axis: cross, intersect, bisect; meet, join.
11 she was suspended for cutting classes: skip, miss, play truant from; informal ditch, play hooky from.
▶noun
1 a cut on his jaw: gash, slash, laceration, incision, wound, injury; scratch, graze, nick.
2 a cut of beef: piece, section.
3 informal the directors are demanding their cut: share, portion, bit, quota, percentage; informal slice, piece of the pie, piece of the action.
4 his hair was in need of a cut: haircut, trim, clip, crop.
5 a smart cut of the whip: blow, slash, stroke.
6 he followed this with the unkindest cut of all: insult, slight, affront, slap in the face, jibe, barb, cutting remark, put-down, dig.
7 a cut in interest rates: reduction, cutback, decrease, lessening, rollback.
8 the elegant cut of his jacket: style, design; tailoring, lines, fit.
PHRASES
cut back if profits don't soon improve, we'll have to find ways to cut back 
they cut back on medical benefits: economize, downsize, pull/draw in one's horns, tighten one's belt, slim down, scale down; (cut back on) cut, cut down, decrease, lessen, retrench, reduce, trim; informal slash. cut down
1 24 hectares of trees were cut down: fell, chop down, hack down, saw down, hew.
2 he was cut down in his prime: kill, slaughter, shoot down, mow down, gun down; informal take out, blow away; literary slay. cut and dried the answers to such questions are not always cut and dried: definite, decided, settled, explicit, specific, precise, unambiguous, clear-cut, unequivocal, black and white, hard and fast. cut in excuse me for cutting in, but Glenda says that dinner's ready: interrupt, butt in, break in, interject, interpose, chime in. cut off
1 how did this doll's arm get cut off? sever, chop off, hack off; amputate.
2 oil and gas supplies were cut off: discontinue, break off, disconnect, suspend; stop, end, bring to an end.
3 a community cut off from the mainland by the floodwaters: isolate, separate, keep apart; seclude, closet, cloister, sequester. cut out
1 the lifeboat's engines cut out: stop working, stop, fail, give out, break down; informal die, give up the ghost, conk out.
2 cut out all the diseased wood: remove, take out, excise, extract; snip out, clip out.
3 it's best to cut out alcohol altogether: give up, refrain from, abstain from, go without; informal quit, lay off, knock off. cut out of his mother cut him out of her will: exclude from, leave out of, omit from, eliminate from. cut short
1 they cut short their vacation: break off, shorten, truncate, curtail, terminate, end, stop, abort, bring to an untimely end.
2 several award recipients were cut short during their acceptance speeches: interrupt, cut off, butt in on, break in on.
