dog 
dôɡ

▶noun
1 a domesticated carnivorous mammal that typically has a long snout, an acute sense of smell, and a barking, howling, or whining voice. It is widely kept as a pet or for work or field sports. [Canis familiaris, family Canidae (the dog family); probably domesticated from the wolf in the Mesolithic period. The dog family also includes the wolves, coyotes, jackals, and foxes.] 
• a wild animal of the dog family. 
• the male of an animal of the dog family, or of some other mammals such as the otter: [as modifier] : a dog fox.
2 informal a person regarded as unpleasant, contemptible, or wicked (used as a term of abuse): come out, Michael, you dog! 
• [with adjective] dated used to refer to a person of a specified kind in a tone of playful reproof, commiseration, or congratulation: you lucky dog! 
• used in various phrases to refer to someone who is abject or miserable, especially because they have been treated harshly: I make him work like a dog 
Rob was treated like a dog. 
• informal, derogatory a woman regarded as unattractive. 
• informal, chiefly North American a thing of poor quality; a failure: a dog of a movie.
3 short for firedog.
4 a mechanical device for gripping.
5 (dogs) North American informal feet: if only I could sit down and rest my tired dogs. 
▶verb (dogs, dogging, dogged) [with object]
1 follow (someone or their movements) closely and persistently: photographers seemed to dog her every step. 
• (of a problem) cause continual trouble for: their finance committee has been dogged by controversy.
2 (dog it) informal, chiefly North American act lazily; fail to try one's hardest.
3 grip (something) with a mechanical device: [with object and complement] : she has dogged the door shut. 
PHRASES
dog eat dog used to refer to a situation of fierce competition in which people are willing to harm each other in order to succeed: in this business, it's always dog eat dog 
popular music is a dog-eat-dog industry. a dog's age North American informal a very long time: the best I've seen in a dog's age. a dog's life an unhappy existence, full of problems or unfair treatment. the dogs of war literary the havoc accompanying military conflict. [from Shakespeare's Julius Caesar (iii. 1. 274).] every dog has its day proverb everyone will have good luck or success at some point in their lives. go to the dogs informal deteriorate shockingly: the country is going to the dogs. hair of the dog see hair. let sleeping dogs lie see sleep. not a dog's chance no chance at all. put on the dog North American informal behave in a pretentious or ostentatious way: we have to put on the dog for Anne Marie. rain cats and dogs see rain. (as) sick as a dog see sick1. throw someone to the dogs discard someone as worthless: the weak and oppressed must not be thrown to the dogs. you can't teach an old dog new tricks proverb you cannot make people change their established patterns of opinion and behavior.DERIVATIVES doglike 
ˈdôɡˌlīk 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English docga, of unknown origin.
