draft 
draft

▶noun
1 a preliminary version of a piece of writing: the first draft of the party's manifesto 
[as modifier] : a draft document. 
• a plan, sketch, or rough drawing. 
• (in full draft mode) Computing a mode of operation of a printer in which text is produced rapidly but with relatively low definition.
2 (the draft) US compulsory recruitment for military service: 25 million men were subject to the draft 
[as modifier] : draft cards. 
• North American a procedure whereby new or existing sports players are made available for selection or reselection by the teams in a league, usually with the earlier choices being given to the weaker teams. 
• rare a group or individual selected from a larger group for a special duty, e.g., for military service.
3 (British draught) a current of cool air in a room or other confined space: heavy curtains at the windows cut out drafts.
4 (British draught) the action or act of pulling something along, especially a vehicle or farm implement.
5 a written order to pay a specified sum; a check.
6 (British draught) a single act of drinking or inhaling: she downed the remaining beer in one draft. 
• the amount swallowed or inhaled in a single act of drinking or inhaling: he took deep drafts of oxygen into his lungs.
7 (British draught) the depth of water needed to float a ship: the shallow draft enabled her to get close to shore.
8 (British draught) the drawing in of a fishing net. 
• the fish taken at one drawing; a catch. 
▶verb [with object]
1 prepare a preliminary version of (a text): I drafted a letter of resignation.
2 select (a person or group of people) for a certain purpose: he was drafted to help with the task force on best safety practices. 
• US conscript (someone) for military service. 
• North American select (a player) for a sports team through the draft.
3 pull or draw.
4 [no object] Motorsports benefit from reduced wind resistance by driving very closely behind another vehicle. 
▶adjective (British draught) [attributive]
1 denoting beer or other drink that is kept in and served from a barrel or tank rather than from a bottle or can: draft beer.
2 denoting an animal used for pulling heavy loads: draft oxen. 
PHRASES
on draft (of beer or other drink) on tap; ready to be drawn from a barrel or tank; not bottled or canned.DERIVATIVES drafter 
ˈdraftər 
nounORIGIN mid 16th century: phonetic spelling of draught .
