dream 
drēm

▶noun a series of thoughts, images, and sensations occurring in a person's mind during sleep: I had a recurrent dream about falling from great heights. 
• [in singular] a state of mind in which someone is or seems to be unaware of their immediate surroundings: he had been walking around in a dream all day. 
• a cherished aspiration, ambition, or ideal: I fulfilled a childhood dream when I became champion 
the girl of my dreams 
[as modifier] : they'd found their dream home. 
• an unrealistic or self-deluding fantasy: maybe he could get a job and earn some money—but he knew this was just a dream. 
• a person or thing perceived as wonderful or perfect: her new man's an absolute dream 
it was a dream of a backhand 
she's a couturier's dream. 
▶verb (past and past participle dreamed or dreamt 
dremt
) [no object]
1 experience dreams during sleep: I dreamed about her last night. 
• [with object] see, hear, or feel (something) in a dream: maybe you dreamed it 
[with clause] : I dreamed that I was going to be executed. 
• indulge in daydreams or fantasies, typically about something greatly desired: she had dreamed of a trip to Italy. 
• [with object] (dream something away) waste one's time in a lazy, unproductive way.
2 [with negative] contemplate the possibility of doing something or that something might be the case: I wouldn't dream of foisting myself on you 
[with clause] : I never dreamed anyone would take offense. 
PHRASES
beyond one's wildest dreams bigger or better than could be reasonably expected: stockbrokers command salaries beyond the wildest dreams of most workers. in your dreams used in spoken English to assert that something much desired is not likely ever to happen. in one's wildest dreams [with negative] used to emphasize that a situation is beyond the scope of one's imagination: she could never in her wildest dreams have imagined the summer weather in New York. like a dream informal very well or successfully: the car is still running like a dream. live the dream informal have a lifestyle that is perceived as wonderful or perfect: the couple seemed to be living the dream: three gorgeous children and a plush pad.PHRASAL VERBS dream on [in imperative] informal used, especially in spoken English, as an ironic comment on the unlikely or impractical nature of a plan or aspiration: Dean thinks he's going to get the job. Dream on, babe. dream something up imagine or invent something: he's been dreaming up new ways of attracting customers.DERIVATIVES dreamful 
-fəl 
adjective ( literary). dreamless 
ˈdrēmləs 
adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: of Germanic origin, related to Dutch droom and German Traum, and probably also to Old English drēam ‘joy, music.’
