drop 
▶verb
1 Eric dropped the box: let fall, let go of, lose one's grip on; release, unhand, relinquish. ANTONYMS lift, hold on to.
2 water drops from the cave roof: drip, fall, dribble, trickle, run, plop, leak.
3 a plane dropped out of the sky: fall, descend, plunge, plummet, dive, nosedive, tumble, pitch. ANTONYMS rise.
4 she dropped to her knees: fall, sink, collapse, slump, tumble. ANTONYMS rise.
5 informal I was so tired I thought I would drop: collapse, faint, pass out, black out, swoon, keel over; informal conk out.
6 the track drops from the ridge: slope downward, slant downward, descend, go down, fall away, sink, dip. ANTONYMS lift.
7 the exchange rate dropped: decrease, lessen, reduce, diminish, depreciate; fall, decline, dwindle, sink, slump, plunge, plummet, drop off. ANTONYMS increase.
8 you can drop algebra if you wish: give up, drop out of, finish with, withdraw from; discontinue, end, stop, cease, halt; abandon, forgo, relinquish, dispense with, have done with; informal pack in, quit. ANTONYMS take up, continue.
9 he was dropped from the team: exclude, discard, expel, oust, throw out, leave out; dismiss, discharge, let go; informal boot out, kick out. ANTONYMS pick, keep.
10 he dropped his unsuitable friends: abandon, desert, throw over; renounce, disown, turn one's back on, wash one's hands of; reject, give up, cast off; neglect, shun; literary forsake. ANTONYMS keep.
11 he dropped all reference to compensation: omit, leave out, eliminate, take out, delete, cut, erase. ANTONYMS insert, include.
12 the taxi dropped her off : deliver, bring, take, convey, carry, transport; leave, unload. ANTONYMS pick up.
13 drop the gun on the ground: put, place, deposit, set, lay, leave; informal pop, plonk. ANTONYMS pick up.
14 she dropped names: mention, refer to, hint at; bring up, raise, broach, introduce; show off.
15 the team has yet to drop a point: lose, concede, give away. ANTONYMS gain, win.
▶noun
1 a drop of water: droplet, blob, globule, bead, bubble, tear, dot; informal glob; (drops of water/rain) rare stillicide.
2 it needs a drop of oil: small amount, little, bit, dash, spot; dribble, driblet, sprinkle, trickle, splash; dab, speck, smattering, sprinkling, modicum; informal smidgen, tad. ANTONYMS great deal.
3 a lemon drop: candy, lozenge, pastille.
4 a small drop in profits: decrease, reduction, decline, falloff, downturn, slump; cut, cutback, curtailment; depreciation. ANTONYMS increase.
5 I walked to the edge of the drop: cliff, abyss, chasm, gorge, gully, precipice; slope, descent, incline.
PHRASES
drop back/behind he dropped back and was soon lost in the crowd: fall back/behind, get left behind, lag behind; straggle, linger, dawdle, dally, hang back, loiter, bring/take up the rear, dilly-dally. drop off
1 trade dropped off sharply. See drop (sense
7 of the verb).
2 she kept dropping off: fall asleep, doze (off), nap, catnap, drowse; informal nod off, drift off, snooze, take forty winks. drop out of he dropped out of his studies. See drop (sense
8 of the verb). REFLECTIONS Zadie Smithstillicide Of incredible value to the crime writer or anybody else wishing to build suspense into a landscape, stillicide is the falling of water, especially in drops, or a succession of drops. Inexplicably underused—every day brings a new way to employ it.Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
