dry 
▶adjective
1 the dry desert: arid, parched, droughty, scorched, baked; waterless, moistureless, rainless; dehydrated, desiccated, thirsty, bone dry. ANTONYMS wet.
2 dry leaves: parched, dried, withered, shriveled, wilted, wizened; crisp, crispy, brittle; dehydrated, desiccated. ANTONYMS fresh.
3 the rolls were dry: hard, stale, old, past its best. ANTONYMS moist, fresh.
4 a dry well: waterless, empty.
5 I'm really dry: thirsty, dehydrated; informal parched, gasping.
6 it was dry work: thirsty, thirst-making; hot; strenuous, arduous.
7 dry toast: unbuttered, butterless, plain.
8 the dry facts: bare, simple, basic, fundamental, stark, bald, hard, straightforward. ANTONYMS embellished.
9 a dry debate: dull, uninteresting, boring, unexciting, tedious, tiresome, wearisome, dreary, monotonous; unimaginative, sterile, flat, bland, lackluster, uninvolving, stodgy, prosaic, humdrum, mundane; informal deadly. ANTONYMS lively, interesting.
10 a dry sense of humor: wry, subtle, laconic, sharp; ironic, sardonic, sarcastic, cynical; satirical, mocking, droll; informal waggish.
11 a dry response to his cordial advance: unemotional, indifferent, impassive, cool, cold, emotionless; reserved, restrained, impersonal, formal, stiff, wooden. ANTONYMS emotional, expressive.
12 this is a dry state: teetotal, prohibitionist, alcohol-free, nondrinking, abstinent, sober; informal on the wagon.
13 dry white wine: crisp, sharp, piquant, tart, bitter. ANTONYMS sweet.
▶verb
1 the sun dried the ground: parch, scorch, bake; dehydrate, desiccate, dehumidify. ANTONYMS moisten.
2 dry the leaves completely: dehydrate, desiccate; wither, shrivel. ANTONYMS moisten.
3 he dried the spills with a paper towel: towel, rub; mop up, blot up, soak up, absorb.
4 she dried her eyes: wipe, rub, dab.
5 methods of drying meat: desiccate, dehydrate; preserve, cure, smoke.
PHRASES
dry out she dried out on her thirtieth birthday and has been sober ever since: give up drinking, give up alcohol, become a teetotaler, go on the wagon. dry up foreign investment may dry up: dwindle, subside, peter out, wane, taper off, ebb, come to a halt/end, run out, give out, disappear, vanish. CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD dry, arid, dehydrated, dessicated, parched, sere Almost anything lacking in moisture (in relative terms)—whether it's a piece of bread, the basement of a house, or the state of Arizona—may be described as dry, a word that also connotes a lack of life or spirit (a dry lecture on cell division). Arid, on the other hand, applies to places or things that have been deprived of moisture and are therefore extremely or abnormally dry (one side of the island was arid); it is most commonly used to describe a desertlike region or climate that is lifeless or barren. Desiccated is used as a technical term for something from which moisture has been removed, and in general use it suggests lifelessness, although it is applied very often to people who have lost their vitality (a desiccated old woman who never left her house) or to animal and vegetable products that have been completely deprived of their vital juices (desiccated oranges hanging limply from the tree). Dehydrated is very close in meaning to desiccated and is often the preferred adjective when describing foods from which the moisture has been intentionally extracted (they lived on dehydrated fruit). Dehydrated may also refer to an unwanted loss of moisture (the virus had left him seriously dehydrated), as may the less formal term parched, which refers to an undesirable or uncomfortable lack of water in either a person or a place (parched with thirst; the parched landscape). Sere is associated primarily with places and means much the same as arid (a harsh, sere land where few inhabitants could survive).These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
