due 
d(y)o͞o

▶adjective
1 [predicative] expected at or planned for at a certain time: the baby's due in August 
he is due back soon 
[with infinitive] : talks are due to adjourn tomorrow. 
• (of a payment) required at a certain time: the May installment was due. 
• (of a person) having reached a point where the thing mentioned is required or owed: she was due for a raise 
you're more than due a vacation. 
• (of a thing) required or owed as a legal or moral obligation: he was only taking back what was due to him 
you must pay any income tax due.
2 [attributive] of the proper quality or extent; adequate: driving without due care and attention. 
▶noun
1 (one's due) a person's right; what is owed to someone: he attracts more criticism than is his due.
2 (dues) an obligatory payment; a fee: he had paid union dues for years. 
▶adverb (with reference to a point of the compass) exactly; directly: we'll head due south again on the same road. 
PHRASES
due to
1 caused by or ascribable to: unemployment due to automation will grow steadily.
2 because of; owing to: he had to withdraw due to a knee injury. give someone their due be fair to someone: to give him his due, he was a generous employer. in due course at the appropriate time: Reynolds will respond in due course to the letter. pay one's dues fulfill one's obligations: he had paid his dues to society for his previous convictions. 
• experience difficulties before achieving success: this drummer has paid his dues with the best.ORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘payable’): from Old French deu ‘owed,’ based on Latin debitus ‘owed,’ from debere ‘owe.’ usage: The use of due to as a prepositional phrase meaning ‘because of,’ as in he had to retire due to an injury first appeared in print in 1897, and traditional grammarians have opposed this prepositional usage for more than a century on the grounds that it is a misuse of the adjectival phrase due to in the sense of ‘attributable to, likely or expected to’ ( the train is due to arrive at 11:15), or ‘payable or owed to’ ( render unto Caesar what is due to Caesar). Nevertheless, this prepositional usage is now widespread and common in all types of literature and must be regarded as standard English.The phrase due to the fact that is very common in speech, but it is wordy, and, especially in writing, one should use the simple word ‘because.’
