ear
1 
ir

▶noun the organ of hearing and balance in humans and other vertebrates, especially the external part of this. 
• an organ sensitive to sound in other animals. 
• [in singular] an ability to recognize, appreciate, and reproduce sounds, especially music or language: an ear for melody. 
• used to refer to a person's willingness to listen and pay attention to something: she offers a sympathetic ear to worried pet owners. 
• an ear-shaped thing, especially the handle of a jug. The ear of a mammal is composed of three parts. The outer or external ear consists of a fleshy external flap and a tube leading to the eardrum or tympanum. The middle ear is an air-filled cavity connected to the throat, containing three small linked bones that transmit vibrations from the eardrum to the inner ear. The inner ear is a complex fluid-filled labyrinth including the spiral cochlea (where vibrations are converted to nerve impulses) and the three semicircular canals (forming the organ of balance). The ears of other vertebrates are broadly similar. 
PHRASES
be all ears informal be listening eagerly and attentively. bring something (down) about one's ears bring something, especially misfortune, on oneself: she brought her world crashing about her ears. one's ears are burning one is subconsciously aware of being talked about or criticized. grin (or smile) from ear to ear smile broadly. have something coming out of one's ears informal have a substantial or excessive amount of something: that man's got money coming out of his ears. have someone's ear have access to and influence with someone: he claimed to have the prime minister's ear. have (or keep) an ear to the ground be well informed about events and trends. in one ear and out the other heard but disregarded or quickly forgotten: whatever he tells me seems to go in one ear and out the other. listen with half an ear not give one's full attention. be out on one's ear informal be dismissed or ejected ignominiously. reach someone's ears be heard or heard about by someone: the sound of running feet reached my ears 
one of those stories reached our ears. up to one's ears in informal very busy with or deeply involved in: I'm up to my ears in work here.DERIVATIVES eared 
ird 
adjective [in combination] : long-eared. earless 
ˈirləs 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English ēare, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch oor and German Ohr, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin auris and Greek ous .
