easy 
ˈēzē

▶adjective (easier, easiest)
1 achieved without great effort; presenting few difficulties: an easy way of retrieving information. 
• [attributive] (of an object of attack or criticism) having no defense; vulnerable: he was vulnerable and an easy target. 
• informal, derogatory (of a woman) open to sexual advances; sexually available: her reputation at school for being easy.
2 (of a period of time or way of life) free from worries or problems: promises of an easy life in the New World. 
• (of a person) lacking anxiety or awkwardness; relaxed: his easy and agreeable manner 
they didn't feel easy about what they were doing. 
▶adverb archaic or US informal without difficulty or effort: we all scared real easy in those days. 
▶exclam. be careful: easy, girl—you'll knock me over! 
PHRASES
be easier said than done be more easily talked about than put into practice. (as) easy as pie see pie1. easy come, easy go used to indicate that a relationship or possession acquired without effort may be abandoned or lost casually and without regret. easy does it used especially in spoken English to advise someone to approach a task carefully and slowly. easy on the eye (or ear) informal pleasant to look at (or listen to).go (or be) easy on someone informal refrain from being harsh with or critical of someone. go easy on something informal be sparing or cautious in one's use or consumption of something: go easy on fatty foods. have it easy informal be free from difficulties; be fortunate. I'm easy informal said by someone when offered a choice to indicate that they have no particular preference. of easy virtue dated (of a woman) sexually promiscuous. rest (or sleep) easy be untroubled by (or go to sleep without) worries: this insurance policy will let you rest easy. take the easy way out extricate oneself from a difficult situation by choosing the simplest or most expedient course rather than the most honorable or ethical one. take it easy proceed calmly and in a relaxed manner. 
• make little effort; rest.DERIVATIVES easiness 
ˈēzinis 
nounORIGIN Middle English (also in the sense ‘comfortable, quiet, tranquil’): from Old French aisie, past participle of aisier ‘put at ease, facilitate’ (see ease) .
