echo 
ˈekō

▶noun (plural echoes)
1 a sound or series of sounds caused by the reflection of sound waves from a surface back to the listener: the walls threw back the echoes of his footsteps. 
• a reflected radio or radar beam. 
• the deliberate introduction of reverberation into a sound recording. 
• Linguistics the repetition in structure and content of one speaker's utterance by another.
2 a close parallel or repetition of an idea, feeling, style, or event: his love for her found an echo in her own feelings. 
• (often echoes) a detail or characteristic that is suggestive of something else: the cheese has a sharp rich aftertaste with echoes of salty, earthy pastures.
3 archaic a person who slavishly repeats the words or opinions of another.
4 Bridge a play by a defender of a higher card in a suit followed by a lower one in a subsequent trick, used as a signal to request a further lead of that suit by their partner.
5 a code word representing the letter E, used in radio communication. 
▶verb (echoes, echoing, echoed) [no object]
1 (of a sound) be repeated or reverberate after the original sound has stopped: their footsteps echoed on the metal catwalks. 
• (of a place) resound with or reflect back a sound or sounds: the house echoed with shouts and thundering feet. 
• [with object] repeat (someone's words or opinions), typically to express agreement: these criticisms are echoed in a number of other studies 
[with direct speech] : “A trip?” she echoed.
2 [with object] (of an object, movement, or event) be reminiscent of or have shared characteristics with: a blue suit that echoed the color of her eyes.
3 [with object] Computing send a copy of (an input signal or character) back to its source or to a screen for display: for security reasons, the password will not be echoed to the screen.
4 Bridge (of a defender) play a higher card followed by a lower one in the same suit, as a signal to request one's partner to lead that suit. DERIVATIVES echoer noun. echoey 
ˈekō-ē 
adjective. echoless 
ˈekōləs 
adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: from Old French or Latin, from Greek ēkhō, related to ēkhē ‘a sound.’
