effect 
əˈfekt

▶noun
1 a change that is a result or consequence of an action or other cause: the lethal effects of hard drugs 
politicians really do have some effect on the lives of ordinary people. 
• the state of being or becoming operative. 
• the extent to which something succeeds or is operative: wind power can be used to great effect. 
• [with modifier] Physics a physical phenomenon, typically named after its discoverer: the Doppler effect. 
• an impression produced in the mind of a person: gentle music can have a soothing effect.
2 (effects) the lighting, sound, or scenery used in a play, movie, or broadcast: the production relied too much on spectacular effects.
3 (effects) personal belongings: the insurance covers personal effects. 
▶verb [with object] cause (something) to happen; bring about: nature always effected a cure 
budget cuts that were quietly effected over four years. 
PHRASES
come into effect become operative; start to apply: similar legislation came into effect in Wales on the same date 
the Kyoto Protocol officially came into effect last week. for effect in order to impress people: I suspect he's controversial for effect. in effect in operation; in force: a moratorium in effect since 1985 has been lifted. 
• used to convey that something is the case in practice even if it is not formally acknowledged to be so: additional payments that are in effect an entrance tax. put (or bring or carry) something into effect cause something to apply or become operative: they succeeded in putting their strategies into effect. take effect become operative; start to apply: the ban is to take effect in six months. to the effect that used to refer to the general sense of something written or spoken: some comments to the effect that my essay was a little light on analysis. to that effect having that result, purpose, or meaning: she thought it a foolish rule and put a notice to that effect in a newspaper.ORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French, or from Latin effectus, from efficere ‘accomplish,’ from ex- ‘out, thoroughly’ + facere ‘do, make.’ Sense
3 of the noun,‘personal belongings,’ arose from the obsolete sense ‘something acquired on completion of an action.’ usage: For the differences in use between effect and affect, see usage at affect1 .
