even 
▶adjective
1 an even surface: flat, smooth, uniform, featureless; unbroken, undamaged; level, plane. ANTONYMS bumpy.
2 an even temperature: uniform, constant, steady, stable, consistent, unvarying, unchanging, regular. ANTONYMS variable, irregular.
3 they all have an even chance: equal, the same, identical, like, alike, similar, comparable, parallel. ANTONYMS unequal.
4 the score was even: tied, drawn, level, all square, balanced; neck and neck; informal even-steven. ANTONYMS unequal.
5 an even disposition: even-tempered, balanced, stable, equable, placid, calm, composed, poised, cool, relaxed, easy, imperturbable, unexcitable, unruffled, untroubled; informal together, laid-back, unflappable. ANTONYMS excitable, moody.
▶verb
1 the canal bottom was evened out : flatten, level (off/out), smooth (off/out), plane; make uniform, make regular.
2 even up the portions: equalize, make equal, balance, square; standardize, regularize, homogenize.
▶adverb
1 it got even colder: still, yet, more, all the more.
2 even the best hitters missed the ball: surprisingly, unexpectedly, paradoxically.
3 she is afraid, even ashamed, to ask for help: indeed, you could say, veritably, in truth, actually, or rather; dated nay.
4 she could not even afford food: not so much as, hardly, barely, scarcely.
PHRASES
even as we laugh even as we empathize with his discomfort: while, whilst, as, just as, at the very time that, during the time that. even so I feel better, but the doubts persist even so: nevertheless, nonetheless, all the same, just the same, anyway, anyhow, still, yet, however, notwithstanding, despite that, in spite of that, for all that, be that as it may, in any event, at any rate; informal anyhoo, anyways. get even Waite thinks he's struck the final blow, but I'll get even: have one's revenge, avenge oneself, take vengeance, even the score, settle the score, hit back, give as good as one gets, pay someone back, repay someone, reciprocate, retaliate, take reprisals, exact retribution; give someone their just deserts; informal give someone a taste of their own medicine, settle someone's hash; literary be revenged.
