face 
▶noun
1 a beautiful face: countenance, physiognomy, features; informal mug; puss; literary visage; archaic front.
2 her face grew sad: (facial) expression, look, appearance, air, manner, bearing, countenance, mien.
3 he made a face at the sourness of the drink: grimace, scowl, wry face, wince, frown, glower, pout, moue.
4 a cube has six faces: side, aspect, flank, surface, plane, facet, wall, elevation.
5 a watch face: dial, display.
6 changing the face of the industry: appearance, outward appearance, aspect, nature, image.
7 he put on a brave face: front, show, display, act, appearance, facade, exterior, mask, masquerade, pretense, pose, veneer.
8 criticism should never cause the recipient to lose face: respect, honor, esteem, regard, admiration, approbation, acclaim, approval, favor, appreciation, popularity, prestige, standing, status, dignity; self-respect, self-esteem.
▶verb
1 the hotel faces the sea: look out on, front on to, look toward, be facing, look over/across, overlook, give on to, be opposite (to).
2 you'll just have to face the facts: accept, become reconciled to, get used to, become accustomed to, adjust to, acclimatize oneself to; learn to live with, cope with, deal with, come to terms with, become resigned to.
3 he faces a humiliating rejection: be confronted by, be faced with, encounter, experience, come into contact with, come up against.
4 the problems facing our police force: beset, worry, distress, trouble, bother, confront; harass, oppress, vex, irritate, exasperate, strain, stress, tax; torment, plague, blight, bedevil, curse; formal discommode.
5 he faced the challenge boldly: brave, face up to, encounter, meet, meet head-on, confront; oppose, resist, withstand.
6 a wall faced with stucco: cover, clad, veneer, overlay, surface, dress, put a facing on, laminate, coat, line.
PHRASES
face to face the two men stood face to face: facing (each other), opposite (each other), across from each other. on the face of it on the face on it, the peace talks are going quite well: ostensibly, to all appearances, to all intents and purposes, at first glance, on the surface, superficially; apparently, seemingly, outwardly, it seems (that), it would seem (that), it appears (that), it would appear (that), as far as one can see/tell, by all accounts.
