far 
fär

▶adverb (farther 
ˈfärT͟Hər
, farthest 
ˈfärT͟Həst
or further 
ˈfərT͟Hər
, furthest 
ˈfərT͟Həst
)
1 [often with adverbial] at, to, or by a great distance (used to indicate the extent to which one thing is distant from another): it was not too far away 
the mountains far in the distance glowed in the sun.
2 over a large expanse of space or time: he had not traveled far 
figurative : that's the reason why we have come so far and done as well as we have.
3 by a great deal: he is able to function far better than usual 
the reality has fallen far short of early expectations. 
▶adjective [attributive] situated at a great distance in space or time: the far reaches of the universe. 
• more distant than another object of the same kind: he was standing in the far corner. 
• distant from a point seen as central; extreme: she was brought up in the far north of Scotland 
the largest electoral success for the far right since the war. 
PHRASES
as far as for as great a distance as: the river stretched away as far as he could see. 
• for a great enough distance to reach: I decided to walk as far as the village. 
• to the extent that: as far as I am concerned, it is no big deal. be a far cry from be very different from: the hotel's royal suite is a far cry from the poverty of his home country. by far by a great amount: this was by far the largest city in the area. far and away by a great amount: he is far and away the most accomplished player. far and near (also near and far) everywhere: they came from far and near to New York City. far and wide over a large area: the high plains where bison roamed far and wide. far be it from me to used to express reluctance, especially to do something that one thinks may be resented: far be it from me to speculate on his reasons. far from very different from being; tending to the opposite of: conditions were far from satisfactory. far gone in a bad or worsening state, especially so as to be beyond recovery: a few frames from the original film were too far gone to salvage. 
• advanced in time: the legislative session is too far gone for the lengthy hearings needed to pass the bill. go far
1 achieve a great deal: he was the bright one, and everyone was sure he would go far.
2 contribute greatly: a book that goes far toward bridging the gap.
3 be worth or amount to much: the money would not go far at this year's prices. go so far as to do something do something regarded as extreme: surely they wouldn't go so far as to break in? go too far exceed the limits of what is reasonable or acceptable. how far
1 used to ask how great a distance is: they wanted to know how far he could travel.
2 to what extent: he was not sure how far she was committed. so far
1 to a certain limited extent: the commitment to free trade goes only so far.
2 (of a trend that seems likely to continue) up to this time: we've only had one honest man so far. (in) so far as to the extent that: it was a windless storm so far as blizzards go. so far, so good progress has been satisfactory up to now: “How's the job going?” “So far, so good.”ORIGIN Old English feorr; from an Indo-European root shared by Sanskrit para and Greek pera ‘further.’
