favor 
ˈfāvər 
(British favour) 
▶noun
1 approval, support, or liking for someone or something: the legislation is viewed with favor. 
• overgenerous preferential treatment: they accused you of showing favor to one of the players. 
• a small gift or souvenir: good party favors include stickers, hair barrettes, or crayons. 
• archaic a thing such as a badge or knot of ribbons that is given or worn as a mark of liking or support.
2 an act of kindness beyond what is due or usual: I've come to ask you a favor. 
• (one's favors) dated used with reference to a woman allowing a man to have sexual intercourse with her: she had granted her favors to him. 
▶verb [with object]
1 feel or show approval or preference for: slashing public spending is a policy that few politicians favor. 
• give unfairly preferential treatment to: critics argued that the policy favored the private sector. 
• work to the advantage of: natural selection has favored bats.
2 (favor someone with) (often used in polite requests) give someone (something that they want): please favor me with an answer.
3 dated or North American informal resemble (a parent or relative) in facial features: she's pretty, and she favors you.
4 treat (an injured limb) gently, not putting one's full weight on it: he favors his sore leg. 
PHRASES
do someone a favor do something for someone as an act of kindness. in favor
1 (also out of favor) meeting (or not meeting) with approval: they were not in favor with the party 
proper dancing has gone out of favor.
2 having or showing approval: the appeals court ruled 2-1 in favor of his extradition. in one's favor to one's advantage: events were moving in his favor. in favor of
1 to be replaced by: he stepped down as leader in favor of his rival.
2 to the advantage of: the final score was 25-16 in favor of Washington.DERIVATIVES favorer nounORIGIN Middle English (in the noun sense ‘liking, preference’): via Old French from Latin favor, from favere ‘show kindness to’ (related to fovere ‘cherish’).
