few 
fyo͞o

▶det., adjective & pronoun
1 (a few) a small number of: [as adjective] : may I ask a few questions? 
[as pronoun] : I will recount a few of the stories told me 
many believe it but only a few are prepared to say.
2 used to emphasize how small a number of people or things is: [as adjective] : he had few friends 
[as pronoun] : few thought to challenge these assumptions 
very few of the titles have any literary merit 
one of the few who survived 
[comparative] : a population of fewer than two million 
[as adjective] : sewing was one of her few pleasures 
[superlative] : ask which products have the fewest complaints. 
▶noun (as plural noun the few) the minority of people; the elect: a world that increasingly belongs to the few. 
PHRASES
every few once in every small group of (typically units of time): she visits every few weeks. few and far between scarce; infrequent: my inspired moments are few and far between. a good few British a fairly large number of: it had been around for a good few years. have a few informal drink enough alcohol to be slightly drunk: I tend to keep my mouth shut, unless I've had a few. no fewer than used to emphasize a surprisingly large number: there are no fewer than seventy different brand names. not a few a considerable number: his fiction has caused not a few readers to see red. quite a few a fairly large number: quite a few people can do it. some few some but not many: some few people are born without any sense of time.ORIGIN Old English fēawe, fēawa; from an Indo-European root shared by Latin paucus and Greek pauros ‘small.’ usage: Fewer versus less: strictly speaking, the rule is that fewer, the comparative form of few, is used with words denoting people or countable things ( fewer members; fewer books; fewer than ten contestants). Less, on the other hand, is used with mass nouns, denoting things that cannot be counted ( less money; less music). In addition, less is normally used with numbers ( less than 10,000) and with expressions of measurement or time ( less than two weeks; less than four miles away). But to use less with count nouns, as in less people or less words, is incorrect in standard English.
