flame 
flām

▶noun
1 a hot glowing body of ignited gas that is generated by something on fire: the flame of a candle 
a sheet of flame blocked my escape. 
• a thing compared to a flame's ability to burn fiercely or be extinguished: the flame of hope burns brightly here 
the sound of his laughter fanned the flame of anger to new heights. 
• a brilliant orange-red color: [in combination] : a flame-red trench coat.
2 Computing, informal a vitriolic or abusive message posted on the Internet or sent by email, typically in quick response to another message: flames about inexperienced users posting stupid messages. 
▶verb
1 [no object] burn and give off flames: a great fire flamed in an open fireplace. 
• [with object] set (something) alight: warm the whiskey slightly, pour over the lobster, and flame it. 
• shine or glow like a flame: her thick hair flamed against the light. 
• (of an intense emotion) appear suddenly and fiercely: hope flamed in her. 
• (of a person's face) suddenly become red with intense emotion, especially anger or embarrassment: Jess's cheeks flamed.
2 [with object] Computing, informal direct a vitriolic or abusive message at (someone) by posting on the Internet or sending an email: your opinions and mine are probably different, but please don't flame me. 
PHRASES
burst into flame (or flames) suddenly begin to burn fiercely: the grass looked ready to burst into flame.go up in flames be destroyed by fire: last night two factories went up in flames. in flames on fire; burning fiercely: the plane plunged to the ground in flames. old flame informal a former lover.PHRASAL VERBS flame out (of a jet engine) lose power through the extinction of the flame in the combustion chamber. 
• informal, chiefly North American fail, especially conspicuously: journalists had seared him for flaming out in the second round of the Olympics.DERIVATIVES flameless 
ˈflāmləs 
adjective. flamelike 
-ˌlīk 
adjective. flamer 
ˈflāmər 
noun (Computing).. flamy 
ˈflāmē 
adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: from Old French flame (noun), flamer (verb), from Latin flamma ‘a flame.’
