focus 
▶noun
1 schools are a focus of community life: center, focal point, central point, center of attention, hub, pivot, nucleus, heart, core, cornerstone, linchpin, cynosure.
2 the focus is on helping people: emphasis, accent, priority, attention, concentration.
3 the main focus of this chapter: subject, theme, concern, subject matter, topic, issue, thesis, point, thread; substance, essence, gist, matter.
4 the resulting light beams are brought to a focus at the eyepiece: focal point, point of convergence.
▶verb
1 she focused her binoculars on the tower: bring into focus; aim, point, turn.
2 the investigation will focus on areas of social need: concentrate on, center on, zero in on, zoom in on; address itself to, pay attention to, pinpoint, revolve around, have as its starting point.
PHRASES
in focus submit only those snapshots that are in focus: sharp, crisp, distinct, clear, well defined, well focused. out of focus the shots are slightly out of focus, which gives them an eerie quality: blurred, unfocused, indistinct, blurry, fuzzy, hazy, misty, cloudy, lacking definition, nebulous. REFLECTIONS David Foster Wallacefocus Focus is now the noun of choice for expressing what people used to mean by concentration (Sampras's on-court focus was phenomenal) and emphasis (Our focus is on satisfying the needs of our customers). Adjectivized, it seems often to serve as an approving synonym for driven or monomaniacal:He's the most focused warehouse manager we've ever had. As a verb, it seems isomorphic with the older to concentrate:Focus, people! ; The Democrats hope that the campaign will focus on the economy; We need to focus on finding solutions instead of blaming each other ; etc. Notice, with respect to those last two sample sentences, how the verb phrase to focus on can take as its object either a thing-noun ('economy') or an -ing word ('finding'), and how its grammar is slightly different in these two cases. With a noun, to focus on means 'to concentrate attention or effort on,' i.e., the direct object is built right into the verb phrase; but with -ing words it means 'to direct toward a particular goal'—there's always a direct object like 'attention/efforts/energies' that's suppressed but understood, and the -ing word functions as an indirect object. Given the speed with which to focus has supplanted to concentrate, it's a little surprising that nobody objects to its somewhat jargony New Age feel—but nobody seems to. Maybe this is because the word is only one of many film and drama terms that have lately entered mainstream usage, e.g., to foreground (= to feature, to give top priority to); to background (= to downplay, to relegate to the back burner); scenario (= an outline of some hypothetical sequence of events), and dialogue.Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
