follow 
▶verb
1 we'll let the others follow: come behind, come after, go behind, go after, walk behind. ANTONYMS lead.
2 he was expected to follow his father in the business: succeed, replace, take the place of, take over from; informal step into someone's shoes, fill someone's shoes/boots.
3 people used to follow the band around : accompany, go along with, go around with, travel with, escort, attend, trail around with, string along with; informal tag along with. ANTONYMS lead.
4 the KGB followed her everywhere: shadow, trail, stalk, track, dog, hound; informal tail.
5 follow the instructions: obey, comply with, conform to, adhere to, stick to, keep to, hew to, act in accordance with, abide by, observe, heed, pay attention to. ANTONYMS flout.
6 penalties may follow from such behavior: result from, arise from, be a consequence of, be caused by, be brought about by, be a result of, come after, develop from, ensue from, emanate from, issue from, proceed from, spring from, flow from, originate from, stem from. ANTONYMS lead to.
7 I couldn't follow what he said: understand, comprehend, apprehend, take in, grasp, fathom, appreciate, see; informal make head(s) or tail(s) of, get, figure out, savvy, wrap/get one's head around, wrap/get one's mind around, get the drift of. ANTONYMS misunderstand.
8 she followed her mentor in her poetic style: imitate, copy, mimic, ape, reproduce, mirror, echo; emulate, take as a pattern, take as an example, take as a model, adopt the style of, model oneself on, take a leaf out of someone's book.
9 he follows the Pacers: be a fan of, be a supporter of, support, be a follower of, be an admirer of, be a devotee of, be devoted to. ANTONYMS dislike.
PHRASES
follow through they lack the resources to follow the project through: complete, bring to completion, see something through; continue with, carry on with, keep on with, keep going with, stay with; informal stick something out. follow up I've got a hunch and I'm going to follow it up: investigate, research, look into, dig into, delve into, make inquiries into, inquire about, ask questions about, pursue, chase up; informal check out, scope out.
