for 
fôr fər

▶preposition
1 in support of or in favor of (a person or policy): they voted for independence in a referendum.
2 affecting, with regard to, or in respect of (someone or something): she is responsible for the efficient running of their department 
the demand for money.
3 on behalf of or to the benefit of (someone or something): these parents aren't speaking for everyone. 
• employed by: it was a good firm to work for.
4 having (the thing mentioned) as a purpose or function: she is searching for enlightenment 
the necessary tools for making a picture frame.
5 having (the thing mentioned) as a reason or cause: Aileen is proud of her family for their support 
I could dance and sing for joy.
6 having (the place mentioned) as a destination: they are leaving for Swampscott tomorrow.
7 representing (the thing mentioned): the “F” is for Fascinating.
8 in place of or in exchange for (something): swap these two bottles for that one. 
• charged as (a price): copies are available for only a buck.
9 in relation to the expected norm of (something): she was tall for her age 
warm weather for this time of year.
10 indicating the length of (a period of time): he was in prison for
12 years 
I haven't seen him for some time.
11 indicating the extent of (a distance): he crawled for 300 yards.
12 indicating an occasion in a series: the camcorder failed for the third time. 
▶conjunction literary because; since: he felt guilty, for he knew that he bore a share of responsibility for Fanny's death. 
PHRASES
be for it British informal be in imminent danger of punishment or other trouble. for all —— see all. for ever see forever. for why informal for what reason: you're going to and I'll tell you for why. oh for —— I long for ——: oh for a strong black coffee! there's (or that's) —— for you used ironically to indicate a particularly poor example of (a quality mentioned): there's gratitude for you.ORIGIN Old English, probably a reduction of a Germanic preposition meaning ‘before’ (in place or time); related to German für, also to fore .
