foundation 
▶noun
1 the foundations of a building: footing, foot, base, substructure, infrastructure, underpinning; bottom, bedrock, substratum.
2 the report has a scientific foundation: basis, starting point, base, point of departure, beginning, premise; principles, fundamentals, rudiments; cornerstone, core, heart, thrust, essence, kernel.
3 there was no foundation for the claim: justification, grounds, defense, reason, rationale, cause, basis, motive, excuse, call, pretext, provocation.
4 an educational foundation: endowed institution, charitable body, funding agency, source of funds, endowment; dot-org.REFLECTIONS David Lehmanfoundation garments Some writers love assignments and exercises, and one I like involves taking familiar two-word phrases, misconstruing at least one of the terms in each case, and using the results to trigger a narrative. Foundation garments can be construed correctly to refer to a woman's underclothes—or creatively to indicate a suit worn by officials of the Guggenheim, Ford, MacArthur, or Rockefeller foundations. Lemon peel suggests a variety of striptease done beneath hot yellow lights. Body shop is a place that provides corpses—for a stiff price. The idea of a hospital used for military purposes popped into my head when my friend Bill Wadsworth told me that as a boy he thought General Anesthesia was related to Princess Anastasia and that both came out of Tolstoy. I used to think trial and error was a comment on the judiciary. Now I think it designates a court where the verdict is always wrong, so to be tried there is itself a punishment. In sum: a famous executive at a philanthropic foundation goes to a strip club. Later, the stripper's corpse turns up in a back alley where the stuffed shirt lies unconscious. He is charged with a crime he does not remember having committed. His restored memory is his punishment, which cures him as he lies in the hospital ward where strange ideological debates and disputes keep going on around him. All this is proof, perhaps, that metaphoric invention is a species of deliberate error.Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
