free 
▶adjective
1 admission is free: without charge, free of charge, for nothing; complimentary, gratis; informal for free, on the house.
2 she was free of any pressures: unencumbered by, unaffected by, clear of, without, rid of; exempt from, not liable to, safe from, immune to, excused from; informal sans, minus.
3 I'm free this afternoon: unoccupied, not busy, available, between appointments; off duty, off work, off; on vacation, on leave; at leisure, with time on one's hands, with time to spare. ANTONYMS busy, occupied, unavailable.
4 the bathroom's free now: vacant, empty, available, unoccupied, not taken, not in use. ANTONYMS occupied.
5 a citizen of a free nation: independent, self-governing, self-governed, self-ruling, self-determining, nonaligned, sovereign, autonomous; democratic. ANTONYMS dependent.
6 the killer is still free: on the loose, at liberty, at large; loose, unconfined, unbound, untied, unchained, untethered, unshackled, unfettered, unrestrained. ANTONYMS captive.
7 you are free to leave: allowed, permitted; able, in a position to. ANTONYMS unable.
8 the free flow of water: unimpeded, unobstructed, unrestricted, unhampered, clear, open, unblocked. ANTONYMS obstructed.
9 she was free with her money: generous, liberal, openhanded, unstinting, bountiful; lavish, extravagant, prodigal. ANTONYMS mean.
10 his free and hearty manner: frank, open, candid, direct, plain-spoken; unrestrained, unconstrained, free and easy, uninhibited.
▶verb
1 three of the hostages were freed: release, set free, let go, liberate, discharge, deliver; set loose, let loose, turn loose, untie, unchain, unfetter, unshackle, unleash; literary disenthrall. ANTONYMS confine, lock up.
2 the victims were freed by firefighters: extricate, release, get out, pull out, pull free; rescue, set free. ANTONYMS trap.
3 they wish to be freed from all legal ties: exempt, except, excuse, relieve, unburden, disburden.
PHRASES
free and easy the restaurant's free and easy atmosphere: easygoing, relaxed, casual, informal, unceremonious, unforced, natural, open, spontaneous, uninhibited, friendly; tolerant, liberal; informal laid-back. a free hand he was allowed a free hand in appointing new staff: free rein, carte blanche, freedom, liberty, license, latitude, leeway, a blank check.
