from 
frəm

▶preposition
1 indicating the point in space at which a journey, motion, or action starts: she began to walk away from him 
I leapt from my bed 
figurative : he was turning the committee away from appeasement. 
• indicating the distance between a particular place and another place used as a point of reference: the ambush occurred 50 yards from a checkpoint.
2 indicating the point in time at which a particular process, event, or activity starts: the show will run from
10 to 2.
3 indicating the source or provenance of someone or something: I'm from Hartford 
she phoned him from the hotel 
she demanded the keys from her husband. 
• indicating the date at which something was created: a document dating from the thirteenth century.
4 indicating the starting point of a specified range on a scale: men who ranged in age from seventeen to eighty-four. 
• indicating one extreme in a range of conceptual variations: anything from geography to literature.
5 indicating the point at which an observer is placed: you can see the island from here 
figurative : the ability to see things from another's point of view.
6 indicating the raw material out of which something is manufactured: a varnish made from copal.
7 indicating separation or removal: the party was ousted from power after sixteen years.
8 indicating prevention: the story of how he was saved from death.
9 indicating a cause: a child suffering from asthma.
10 indicating a source of knowledge or the basis for one's judgment: information obtained from papers, books, and presentations.
11 indicating a distinction: the courts view him in a different light from that of a manual worker. 
PHRASES
as from see as1. from day to day (or hour to hour, etc.) daily (or hourly, etc.); as the days (or hours, etc.) pass.from now (or then, etc.) on now (or then, etc.) and in the future: they were friends from that day on. from time to time occasionally.ORIGIN Old English fram, from, of Germanic origin; related to Old Norse frá (see fro) .
