full 
▶adjective
1 her glass was full: filled, filled up, filled to capacity, filled to the brim, brimming, brimful. ANTONYMS empty.
2 streets full of people: crowded with, packed with, crammed with, congested with; teeming with, swarming with, thick with, thronged with, overcrowded with, overrun with; abounding with, bursting with, overflowing with; informal jam-packed with, wall-to-wall with, stuffed with, chockablock with, chock-full of, bursting at the seams with, packed to the gunwales with, awash with. ANTONYMS empty.
3 all the seats were full: occupied, taken, in use, unavailable. ANTONYMS empty, unoccupied.
4 I'm full: replete, full up, satisfied, well fed, sated, satiated, surfeited; gorged, glutted; informal stuffed. ANTONYMS hungry.
5 she'd had a full life: eventful, interesting, exciting, lively, action-packed, busy, energetic, active. ANTONYMS uneventful.
6 a full list of available facilities: comprehensive, thorough, exhaustive, all-inclusive, all-encompassing, all-embracing, in depth; complete, entire, whole, unabridged, uncut. ANTONYMS selective, incomplete.
7 a fire engine driven at full speed: maximum, top, greatest, highest. ANTONYMS low.
8 she had a full figure: plump, well rounded, rounded, buxom, shapely, ample, curvaceous, voluptuous, womanly, Junoesque; informal busty, curvy, well upholstered, well endowed, zaftig. ANTONYMS thin.
9 a full skirt: loose-fitting, loose, baggy, voluminous, roomy, capacious, billowing. ANTONYMS tight, tight-fitting.
10 his full baritone voice: resonant, rich, sonorous, deep, vibrant, full-bodied, strong, fruity, clear. ANTONYMS thin.
11 the full flavor of a Bordeaux: rich, intense, full-bodied, strong, deep. ANTONYMS watery, thin.
▶adverb
1 she looked full into his face: directly, right, straight, squarely, square, dead, point-blank; informal bang, plumb.
2 you knew full well I was leaving: very, perfectly, quite; informal darn, damn, damned, darned; chiefly British bloody.
PHRASES
in full my letter was published in full: in its entirety, in toto, in total, unabridged, uncut. to the full live your life to the full: fully, thoroughly, completely, to the utmost, to the limit, to the maximum, for all one's worth.
