further 
ˈfərT͟Hər
used as comparative of far. 
▶adverb
1 (also farther 
ˈfärT͟Hər
) at, to, or by a greater distance (used to indicate the extent to which one thing or person is or becomes distant from another): for some time I had wanted to move farther from Lynne 
figurative : the committee seems to have moved further away from its original aims. 
• [with negative] used to emphasize the difference between a supposed or suggested fact or state of mind and the truth: as for her being a liar, nothing could be further from the truth 
nothing could be further from his mind than marrying.
2 (also farther 
ˈfär-
) over a greater expanse of space or time; for a longer way: we had walked further than I realized 
figurative : wages have been driven down even further. 
• beyond the point already reached or the distance already covered: Emily decided to drive further up the coast 
before going any further we need to define our terms.
3 beyond or in addition to what has already been done: we are investigating ways to further increase customer satisfaction 
this theme will be developed further in Chapter
6 
I shall not trouble you any further. 
• [sentence adverb] used to introduce a new point relating to or reinforcing a previous statement: poison hemlock resembles wild carrot, but has a strong, pungent odor; further, young leaves of wild carrot are more finely divided. 
• at or to a more advanced, successful, or desirable stage: at the end of three years they were no further on. 
▶adjective
1 (also farther 
ˈfär-
) more distant in space than something else of the same kind: two men were standing at the further end of the clearing. 
• more remote from a central point: the museum is in the further reaches of the town.
2 additional to what already exists or has already taken place, been done, or been accounted for: cook for a further ten minutes. 
▶verb [with object] help the progress or development of (something); promote: he had depended on using them to further his own career. 
PHRASES
not go any further (of a secret) not be told to anyone else. until further notice used to indicate that a situation will not change until another announcement is made: the museum is closed to the public until further notice. until further orders used to indicate that a situation is only to change when another command is received: they were to be kept in prison until further orders.DERIVATIVES furtherer nounORIGIN Old English furthor (adverb), furthra (adjective), fyrthrian (verb), of Germanic origin; related to forth . usage: On the differences between further and farther, see farther .
