get 
▶verb
1 where did you get that hat? acquire, obtain, come by, receive, gain, earn, win, come into, take possession of, be given; buy, purchase, procure, secure; gather, collect, pick up, hook, net, land; achieve, attain; informal get one's hands on, get one's mitts on, get hold of, grab, bag, score. ANTONYMS give.
2 I got your letter: receive, be sent, be in receipt of, be given. ANTONYMS send.
3 your tea's getting cold: become, grow, turn, go.
4 get the children from school: fetch, collect, go for, call for, pick up, bring, deliver, convey, ferry, transport. ANTONYMS leave.
5 the chairman gets $650,000 a year: earn, be paid, take home, bring in, make, receive, collect, gross; informal pocket, bank, rake in, net, bag.
6 have the police got their man? apprehend, catch, arrest, capture, seize; take prisoner, take into custody, detain, put in jail, put behind bars, imprison, incarcerate; informal collar, grab, nab, nail, run in, pinch, bust, pick up, pull in.
7 I got a taxi: travel by/on/in; take, catch, use.
8 she got the flu: succumb to, develop, come/go down with, get sick with, fall victim to, be struck down with, be afflicted by/with; become infected with, catch, contract, fall ill with, be taken ill with.
9 I got a pain in my arm: experience, suffer, be afflicted with, sustain, feel, have.
10 I got him on the radio: contact, get in touch with, communicate with, make contact with, reach; phone, call, radio; speak to, talk to; informal get hold of.
11 I didn't get what he said: hear, discern, distinguish, make out, perceive, follow, take in.
12 I don't get the joke: understand, comprehend, grasp, see, fathom, follow, perceive, apprehend, unravel, decipher; informal get the drift of, catch on to, latch on to, figure out.
13 we got there early: arrive, reach, come, make it, turn up, appear, come on the scene, approach, enter, present oneself, come along, materialize, show one's face; informal show (up), roll in/up, blow in.
14 we got her to go: persuade, induce, prevail on/upon, influence.
15 I'd like to get to meet him: contrive, arrange, find a way, manage; informal work it, fix it.
16 I'll get supper: prepare, get ready, cook, make, assemble, muster, concoct; informal fix, rustle up.
17 informal I'll get him for that: take revenge on, exact/wreak revenge on, get one's revenge on, avenge oneself on, take vengeance on, get even with, pay back, get back at, exact retribution on, give someone their just deserts.
18 you really got me with that third question: baffle, perplex, puzzle, bewilder, mystify, bemuse, confuse, confound; informal flummox, faze, stump, beat, fox, discombobulate.
19 what gets me is how neurotic she is: annoy, irritate, exasperate, anger, irk, vex, provoke, incense, infuriate, madden, try someone's patience, ruffle someone's feathers; informal aggravate, peeve, miff, rile, get to, needle, get someone's back up, get on someone's nerves, get someone's goat, drive mad, make someone see red, tee off, tick off.
PHRASES
get about he uses a wheelchair to get about: move about, move around, travel. get across a photo will help you get the message across: communicate, impart, convey, transmit, make clear, express. get ahead the desire to get ahead: prosper, flourish, thrive, do well; succeed, make it, advance, get on in the world, go up in the world, make good, become rich; informal go places, get somewhere, make the big time. get along
1 can't you try to get along with his family? be friendly, be compatible, get on; agree, see eye to eye, concur, be in accord; informal hit it off, be on the same wavelength.
2 she was getting along well at school: fare, manage, progress, advance, get on, get by, do, cope; succeed. get around Toby really gets around: travel, circulate, socialize, do the rounds. get at
1 it's difficult to get at the pipes: access, get to, reach, touch.
2 she had been got at by enemy agents: corrupt, suborn, influence, bribe, buy off, pay off; informal fix, square.
3 informal what are you getting at? imply, suggest, intimate, insinuate, hint, mean, drive at, allude to. get away the prisoners got away: escape, run away/off, break out, break free, break loose, bolt, flee, take flight, make off, take off, decamp, abscond, make a run for it; slip away, sneak away; informal cut and run, skedaddle, do a disappearing act. get away with he's been getting away with every kind of wrongdoing since he was three: escape blame for, escape punishment for. get back
1 they should get back before dawn: return, come home, come back.
2 she got her gloves back from the lost and found: retrieve, regain, win back, recover, recoup, reclaim, repossess, recapture, redeem; find (again), trace. get back at she wasted years of her life thinking about getting back at her ex-husband: take revenge on, exact/wreak revenge on, avenge oneself on, take vengeance on, get even with, pay back, retaliate on/against, exact retribution on, give someone their just deserts. get by he had just enough money to get by: manage, cope, survive, exist, subsist, muddle through/along, scrape by, make ends meet, make do, keep the wolf from the door; informal make out. get down her poetry always gets me down: depress, sadden, make unhappy, make gloomy, dispirit, dishearten, demoralize, discourage, crush, weigh down, oppress; upset, distress; informal give someone the blues, make someone fed up. get lost do us a favor and get lost! See scram. get off
1 Sally got off the bus: step off, alight (from), dismount (from), descend (from), disembark (from), leave, exit.
2 informal he was arrested but got off: escape punishment, be acquitted, be absolved, be cleared, be exonerated. get on
1 we got on the train: board, enter, step aboard, climb on, mount, ascend, catch; informal hop on, jump on.
2 how are you getting on? fare, manage, progress, get along, do, cope, get by, survive, muddle through/along; succeed, prosper; informal make out.
3 we don't get on too well: be friendly, be compatible, get along; agree, see eye to eye, concur, be in accord; informal hit it off, be on the same wavelength. get on with she got on with her job: continue (with), proceed with, go ahead with, carry on with, go on with, press on with, persist with/in, persevere with; keep at; informal stick with/at. get out
1 the prisoners got out: escape, run away/off, break out, break free, break loose, get away, bolt, flee, take flight, make off, take off, decamp, abscond, make a run for it; slip away, sneak away; informal cut and run, skedaddle, do a disappearing act.
2 the news got out: become known, become common knowledge, come to light, emerge, transpire; come out, be uncovered, be revealed, be divulged, be disseminated, be disclosed, be reported, be released, leak out. get out of how do you plan to get out of this mess? evade, dodge, shirk, avoid, escape, sidestep; informal duck (out of), wriggle out of, cop out of. get over
1 I just got over the flu: recover from, recuperate from, get better after, shrug off, survive.
2 we tried to get over this problem: overcome, surmount, get the better of, master, find an/the answer to, get a grip on, deal with, cope with, sort out, take care of, crack, rise above; informal lick. get together
1 get together the best writers: collect, gather, assemble, bring together, rally, muster, marshal, congregate, convene, amass; formal convoke.
2 we must get together soon: meet, meet up, rendezvous, see each other, socialize. get up he seldom gets up before noon: get out of bed, rise, stir, rouse oneself; informal surface; formal arise. CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD get, acquire, attain, gain, obtain, procure, secure Get is a very broad term meaning 'to come into possession of.' You can get something by fetching it (get some groceries), by receiving it (get a birthday gift), by earning it (get interest on a bank loan), or by any of a dozen other familiar means. It is such a common, overused word that many writers try to substitute obtain for it whenever possible, perhaps because it sounds less colloquial. But it can also sound pretentious (all employees were required to obtain an annual physical exam) and should be reserved for contexts where the emphasis is on seeking something out (to obtain blood samples). Acquire often suggests a continued, sustained, or cumulative acquisition (to acquire poise as one matures), but it can also hint at deviousness (to acquire the keys to the safe). Use procure if you want to emphasize the effort involved in bringing something to pass (procure a mediated divorce settlement) or if you want to imply maneuvering to possess something (procure a reserved parking space). But beware: Procure is so often used to describe the act of obtaining partners to gratify the lust of others (to procure a prostitute) that it has acquired somewhat unsavory overtones. Gain also implies effort, usually in getting something advantageous or profitable (gain entry; gain victory). In a similar vein, secure underscores the difficulty involved in bringing something to pass and the desire to place it beyond danger (secure a permanent peace; secure a lifeline). Attain should be reserved for achieving a high goal or desirable result (if she attains the summit of Mt. Everest, she will secure for herself a place in mountaineering history).These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
