give 
▶verb
1 she gave them $2000: present with, provide with, supply with, furnish with, let someone have; hand (over to), offer, proffer; award, grant (to), bestow on/upon, accord, confer on, make over to; donate to, contribute to. ANTONYMS receive, take.
2 can I give him a message? convey to, pass on to, impart to, communicate to, transmit to; send, deliver (to), relay to; tell (to).
3 a baby given into their care: entrust, commit, consign, assign; formal commend.
4 she gave her life for them: sacrifice, give up, relinquish; devote, dedicate.
5 he gave her time to think: allow, permit, grant, accord; offer.
6 this leaflet gives our opening times: show, display, set out, indicate, detail, list.
7 they gave no further trouble: cause, make, create, occasion.
8 garlic gives flavor: produce, yield, afford, impart, lend.
9 she gave a party: organize, arrange, throw, host, hold, have, provide.
10 Dominic gave a bow: perform, execute, make, do.
11 she gave a shout: utter, let out, emit, produce, make.
12 he gave Larry a beating: administer, deliver, deal, inflict, impose.
13 the door gave: give way, cave in, collapse, break, fall apart; bend, buckle.
▶noun informal there isn't enough give in the jacket: elasticity, flexibility, stretch, stretchiness; slack, play.
PHRASES
give away
1 he refused to believe that his own sister had given him away: betray, inform on; informal rat on, blow the whistle on, sell down the river, rat out, finger.
2 his face gave little away: reveal, disclose, divulge, let slip, leak, let out.
3 Kellie gave away all of her possessions: donate, make a gift of, confer, contribute, will, bequeath; distribute; sacrifice; get rid of, dispose of, relent, throw in the towel/sponge. give in in the end, Dolan was forced to give in: capitulate, concede defeat, admit defeat, give up, surrender, yield, submit, back down, give way, defer, relent, throw in the towel. give off the lantern gives off a powerful glow: emit, produce, send out, throw out; discharge, release, exude, vent. give out
1 the gas reserves have finally given out: run out, be used up, be consumed, be exhausted, be depleted; fail, flag; dry up.
2 thousands of leaflets were given out: distribute, issue, hand out, pass around, dispense; dole out, dish out, mete out; allocate, allot. give up
1 See give in.
2 when did you give up drinking? stop, cease, discontinue, desist from, abstain from, cut out, renounce, forgo; resign from, stand down from; informal quit, kick, swear off, leave off, pack in, lay off. CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD give, afford, award, bestow, confer, donate, grant You give a birthday present, grant a favor, bestow charity, and confer an honor. While all of these verbs mean to convey something or transfer it from one's own possession to that of another, the circumstances surrounding that transfer dictate which word is the best one. Give is the most general, meaning to pass over, deliver, or transmit something (give him encouragement). Grant implies that a request or desire has been expressed, and that the receiver is dependent on the giver's discretion (grant permission for the trip). Award suggests that the giver is in some sense a judge, and that the thing given is deserved (award a scholarship), while bestow implies that something is given as a gift and may imply condescension on the part of the giver (bestow a large sum of money on a needy charity). To confer is to give an honor, a privilege, or a favor; it implies that the giver is a superior (confer a knighthood; confer a college degree). Donate implies that the giving is to a public cause or charity (donate a painting to the local art museum), and to afford is to give or bestow as a natural consequence (the window afforded a fine view of the mountains).These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
