half 
haf

▶noun (plural halves 
havz
) either of two equal or corresponding parts into which something is or can be divided: the northern half of the island 
two and a half years 
divided in half 
reduced by half. 
• either of two equal periods of time into which a sports game or a performance is divided. 
• Golf a score for an individual hole that is the same as one's opponent's. 
• short for halfback. 
▶predet., pronoun, & adjective an amount equal to a half: [as predeterminer] : half an hour 
almost half the children turned up 
[as pronoun] : half of the lectures are delivered by him 
[as adjective] : the last half century. 
• amounting to a part thought of as roughly a half: [as predeterminer] : half the letters were sent first class 
[as pronoun] : half of them are gate-crashers. 
▶adverb to the extent of half: the glass was half full. 
• [often in combination] to a certain extent; partly: the chicken is half-cooked. 
PHRASES
a —— and a half informal used to indicate that one considers a particular person or thing to be an impressive example of their kind: Aunt Edie was a woman and a half. at half cock see half cock. go halves share something equally: she promised to go halves with him. half the battle see battle. half a chance informal the slightest opportunity: given half a chance, he can make anything work. half an eye see eye. the half of it [usually with negative] informal the most important part or aspect of something: you don't know the half of it. half past one (two, etc.) thirty minutes after one (two, etc.) o'clock.half the time see time. not do things by halves do things thoroughly or extravagantly. not half
1 not nearly: he is not half such a fool as they thought.
2 informal not at all: the players are not half bad. too —— by half used to emphasize something bad: the idea seems too superstitious by half.ORIGIN Old English half, healf, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch half and German halb (adjectives). The earliest meaning of the Germanic base was ‘side,’ also a noun sense in Old English.
