have 
▶verb
1 he had a new car: possess, own, be in possession of, be the owner of; be blessed with, boast, enjoy; keep, retain, hold, occupy.
2 the apartment has five rooms: comprise, consist of, contain, include, incorporate, be composed of, be made up of; encompass; formal comprehend.
3 they had dinner together: eat, consume, devour, partake of; drink, imbibe, quaff; informal demolish, dispose of, put away, scoff (down), scarf (down/up).
4 she had a letter from Mark: receive, get, be given, be sent, obtain, acquire, come by, take receipt of. ANTONYMS send, give.
5 we've decided to have a party: organize, arrange, hold, give, host, throw, put on, lay on, set up, fix up.
6 she's going to have a baby: give birth to, bear, be delivered of, bring into the world, produce; informal drop; archaic beget.
7 we are having guests for dinner: entertain, be host to, cater for, receive; invite over, ask over/around, wine and dine; accommodate, put up.
8 he had trouble finding the restaurant: experience, encounter, face, meet, find, run into, go through, undergo.
9 I have a headache: be suffering from, be afflicted by, be affected by, be troubled with.
10 I had a good time: experience; enjoy.
11 many of them have doubts: harbor, entertain, feel, nurse, nurture, sustain, maintain.
12 he had little patience: manifest, show, display, exhibit, demonstrate.
13 she had them line up according to height: make, ask to, request to, get to, tell to, require to, induce to, prevail upon to; order to, command to, direct to, force to.
14 I can't have you insulting me: tolerate, endure, bear, support, accept, put up with, go along with, take, countenance; permit to, allow to; informal stand, abide, stomach; formal brook.
15 I have to get up at six: must, be obliged to, be required to, be compelled to, be forced to, be bound to.
16 informal I'd been had: trick, fool, deceive, cheat, dupe, take in, hoodwink, swindle; informal con, diddle, rip off, shaft, hose, sucker, snooker.
PHRASES
have had it informal
1 they admit that they've had it: have no chance, have no hope, have failed, be finished, be defeated, have lost; informal have flopped, have come a cropper, have bought the farm.
2 if you tell anyone, you've had it: be in trouble, be in for a scolding; informal be in hot water, be in deep doo-doo, be toast, be dead meat. have on she had a blue dress on: be wearing, be dressed in, be clothed in, be attired in, be decked out in, be robed in.
