head 
▶noun
1 she scratched her head thoughtfully: skull, cranium, crown; informal nut, noodle, noggin, dome.
2 he had to use his head: brain(s), brainpower, intellect, intelligence; wit(s), wisdom, mind, sense, reasoning, common sense; informal savvy, gray matter, smarts.
3 she had a good head for business: aptitude, faculty, talent, gift, capacity, ability; mind, brain.
4 the head of the church: leader, chief, controller, governor, superintendent, commander, captain; director, manager; principal, president, premier; chieftain, headman, sachem; CEO; informal boss, bossman, kingpin, top dog, Mr. Big, skipper, ringleader, numero uno, head honcho, big kahuna.
5 the head of the line: front, beginning, start, fore, forefront; top.
6 the head of the river: source, origin, headspring, headwater; literary wellspring.
7 beer with a head : froth, foam, bubbles, spume, fizz, effervescence; suds.
▶adjective the head waiter: chief, principal, leading, main, first, foremost, prime, premier, senior, top, highest, supreme, superior, top-ranking, ranking. ANTONYMS subordinate.
▶verb
1 the procession was headed by the mayor: lead, be at the front of; be first, lead the way.
2 Dr. Jones heads a research team: command, control, lead, run, manage, direct, supervise, superintend, oversee, preside over, rule, govern, captain; informal be the boss of.
3 she was heading for the exit: move toward, make for, aim for, go in the direction of, be bound for, make a beeline for; set out for, start out for.
PHRASES
at the head of Stasha will now be at the head of the department: in charge of, controlling, commanding, leading, managing, running, directing, supervising, overseeing; at the wheel of, at the helm of. come to a head the violence came to a head after two civilians were killed: reach a crisis, come to a climax, reach a critical point, reach a crossroads. go to someone's head
1 the wine has gone to my head: intoxicate someone, befuddle someone, make someone drunk; informal make someone woozy; formal inebriate someone.
2 her victory went to her head: make someone conceited, make someone full of themselves, turn someone's head, puff someone up. head off
1 he went to head off the cars: intercept, divert, deflect, redirect, reroute, draw away, turn away.
2 they headed off a confrontation: forestall, avert, ward off, fend off, stave off, hold off, nip in the bud, keep at bay; prevent, avoid, stop. keep one's head Richie kept his head throughout the confrontation: keep/stay calm, keep one's self-control, maintain one's composure; informal keep one's cool, keep one's shirt on, keep it together, cool one's jets. lose one's head you cannot lose your head in the courtroom: lose control, lose one's composure, lose one's equilibrium, go to pieces; panic, get flustered, get confused, get hysterical; informal lose one's cool, freak out, crack up. 
WORD LINKS
head cephalic relating to the headWord Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.
