heart 
▶noun
1 my heart stopped beating: informal ticker.
2 he poured out his heart: emotions, feelings, sentiments; soul; love, affection, passion.
3 she has no heart: compassion, sympathy, humanity, feeling(s), fellow feeling, tenderness, softness, empathy, understanding; kindness, goodwill.
4 they may lose heart: enthusiasm, keenness, eagerness, spirit, determination, resolve, purpose, courage, nerve, willpower, fortitude; informal guts, spunk.
5 the heart of the city: center, middle, hub, core, nucleus, eye, bosom. ANTONYMS edge.
6 the heart of the matter: essence, crux, core, nub, root, gist, meat, marrow, pith, substance, kernel; informal nitty-gritty. ANTONYMS peripherals.
PHRASES
after one's own heart Lucie was always a girl after my own heart: like-minded, of the same mind, kindred, compatible, congenial, sharing one's tastes; informal on the same wavelength. at heart he's a good kid at heart: deep down, basically, fundamentally, essentially, in essence, intrinsically; really, actually, truly, in fact; informal when you get right down to it. by heart I know the lyrics by heart: from memory, down pat, by rote, word for word, verbatim, word-perfect. do one's heart good it does my heart good to see the children getting along: cheer one (up), please one, gladden one, make one happy, delight one, hearten one, gratify one, make one feel good, give one a lift; informal tickle someone pink. eat one's heart out Adam will eat his heart out when he hears about Julia's engagement: pine, long, ache, brood, mope, fret, sigh, sorrow, yearn, agonize; grieve, mourn, lament. from the bottom of one's heart everything in that poem I meant from the bottom of my heart: sincerely, earnestly, fervently, passionately, truly, genuinely, heartily, with all sincerity. give/lose one's heart to so, which young lady have you given your heart to this week? fall in love with, fall for, be smitten by; informal fall head over heels for, be swept off one's feet by, develop a crush on. have a change of heart it seems that the Smiths have had a change of heart about selling their house: change one's mind, flip-flop, change one's tune, have second thoughts, have a rethink, think again, think twice; informal get cold feet, do a U-turn, pull a U-ey. have a heart come on, have a heart and let Sandy keep the puppy: be compassionate, be kind, be merciful, be lenient, be sympathetic, be considerate, have mercy. heart and soul the volunteers were into the campaign heart and soul: wholeheartedly, enthusiastically, eagerly, zealously; absolutely, completely, entirely, fully, utterly, to the hilt, one hundred percent. take heart your cards and letters helped us to take heart: be encouraged, be heartened, be comforted; cheer up, brighten up, perk up, liven up, revive. with one's heart in one's mouth she slowly made her way down the dark cellar stairs with her heart in her mouth: in alarm, in fear, fearfully, apprehensively, on edge, with trepidation, in suspense, in a cold sweat, with bated breath, on tenterhooks; informal with butterflies in one's stomach, in a state, in a stew, in a sweat. 
WORD LINKS
heart cardiac relating to the heart cardiology the branch of medicine concerned with the heart coronary relating to the arteries of the heartWord Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.
