home 
▶noun
1 they fled their homes: residence, place of residence, house, apartment, flat, bungalow, cottage; accommodations, property, quarters, rooms, lodgings; a roof over one's head; address, place; informal pad, digs; hearth, nest; formal domicile, abode, dwelling, dwelling place, habitation.
2 an Italian stonemason far from his home. See homeland.
3 a home for the elderly: institution, nursing home, retirement home, rest home; children's home; hospice, shelter, refuge, retreat, asylum, hostel, halfway house.
4 the home of fine wines: origin, source, cradle, fount, fountainhead.
▶adjective
1 the home market: domestic, internal, local, national, interior. ANTONYMS foreign, international.
2 home movies 
the sale of home produce: homemade, homegrown, family.
PHRASES
at home
1 I was at home all day: in, in one's house, present, available, indoors, inside, here.
2 she felt very much at home: at ease, comfortable, relaxed, content; in one's element, on one's own turf.
3 he is at home with mathematics: confident with, conversant with, proficient in; used to, familiar with, au fait with, au courant with, skilled in, experienced in, well versed in. bring home to someone Sylvia's overdose brought home to them the fragility of their own lives: make someone realize, make someone understand, make someone aware, make clear to someone; drive home to someone, impress upon someone, draw attention to, focus attention on, underline, highlight, spotlight, emphasize, stress; informal clue someone in to. hit home See hit home, at hit. home free when the inspector at the third checkpoint nodded at Mitchell, I knew we were home free 
I passed the final flag with so much stamina that I knew I was home free: safe, secure, out of danger, off the hook; assured of success, the winner, victorious; informal golden. home in on the reporters immediately wanted to home in on his broken engagement: focus on, concentrate on, zero in on, center on, fix on; highlight, spotlight, target, underline, pinpoint, track, zoom in on. nothing to write home about informal the amusement park was enjoyable enough, but nothing to write home about: unexceptional, mediocre, ordinary, commonplace, indifferent, average, middle-of-the-road, run-of-the-mill, garden variety; boring, mundane, humdrum, ho-hum; tolerable, passable, adequate, fair; informal OK, so-so, 'comme ci, comme ça', plain-vanilla, no great shakes, not so hot.
