hook 
ho͝ok

▶noun
1 a piece of metal or other material, curved or bent back at an angle, for catching hold of or hanging things on: a picture hook. 
• (also fishhook) a bent piece of metal, typically barbed and baited, for catching fish.
2 a thing designed to catch people's attention: companies are looking for a sales hook. 
• a chorus or repeated instrumental passage in a piece of popular music that gives it immediate appeal and makes it easy to remember.
3 a curved cutting instrument, especially as used for reaping or shearing.
4 a short swinging punch made with the elbow bent, especially in boxing: a perfectly timed right hook to the chin. 
• Golf a stroke that makes the ball deviate in flight in the direction of the follow-through (from right to left for a right-handed player), typically inadvertently. Compare with slice.
5 a curved stroke in handwriting, especially as made in learning to write. 
• Music an added stroke transverse to the stem in the symbol for an eighth note or other note.
6 [usually in place names] a curved promontory or sand spit. 
▶verb
1 [with object] attach or fasten with a hook or hooks: the truck had a red lamp hooked to its tailgate 
she tried to hook up her bra 
[no object] : a ladder that hooks over the roof ridge. 
• bend or be bent into the shape of a hook so as to fasten around or to an object: [with object] : he hooked his thumbs in his belt 
[no object] : her legs hooked around mine.
2 [with object] catch with a hook: he hooked a 24-lb pike. 
• informal captivate: I was hooked by John's radical zeal. 
• archaic, informal steal.
3 [with object] Golf strike (the ball) or play (a stroke) so that the ball deviates in the direction of the follow-through, typically inadvertently. 
• [no object] Boxing punch one's opponent with the elbow bent.
4 [with object] Rugby push (the ball) backward with the foot from the front line in a scrum.
5 [no object] (usually as noun hooking) informal (of a woman) work as a prostitute. 
PHRASES
by hook or by crook by any possible means: the government intends, by hook or by crook, to hold on to the land. get one's hooks into informal get hold of: they were going to move out rather than let Mel get his hooks into them. get (or give someone) the hook North American informal be dismissed (or dismiss someone) from a job. hook, line, and sinker used to emphasize that someone has been completely deceived or tricked: he fell hook, line, and sinker for this year's April Fool joke. [with allusion to the taking of bait by a fish.] off the hook
1 informal no longer in difficulty or trouble: I lied to get him off the hook.
2 (of a telephone receiver) not on its rest, and so preventing incoming calls. on the hook for North American informal (in a financial context) responsible for: he's on the hook for about $9.5 million. on one's own hook North American informal, dated on one's own account; by oneself.PHRASAL VERBS hook up
1 (also hook someone/something up) link or be linked to electronic equipment: he was hooked up to an electrocardiograph.
2 informal (of two people) meet or form a relationship: she decides to hook up with Jake, a kid from the nearby boys' school. 
• engage in or form a casual sexual relationship: hooking up with total strangers can be very dangerous.DERIVATIVES hookless adjective. hooklet 
-lit 
noun. hooklike 
-ˌlīk 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English hōc, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch hoek ‘corner, angle, projecting piece of land,’ also to German Haken ‘hook.’
