in 
in

▶preposition
1 expressing the situation of something that is or appears to be enclosed or surrounded by something else: living in Deep River 
dressed in their Sunday best 
soak it in warm soapy water 
she saw it in the rearview mirror. 
• expressing motion with the result that something ends up within or surrounded by something else: don't put dye in the bathtub 
he got in his car and drove off.
2 expressing a period of time during which an event takes place or a situation remains the case: they met in 1885 
at one o'clock in the morning 
I hadn't seen him in years.
3 expressing the length of time before a future event is expected to take place: I'll see you in fifteen minutes.
4 (often followed by a noun without a determiner) expressing a state or condition: to be in love 
I've got to put my affairs in order 
a woman in her thirties 
laid out in a straight line. 
• indicating the quality or aspect with respect to which a judgment is made: no discernible difference in quality.
5 expressing inclusion or involvement: I read it in a book 
acting in a film.
6 indicating someone's occupation or profession: she works in publishing.
7 indicating the language or medium used: say it in Polish 
put it in writing. 
• indicating the key in which a piece of music is written: Mozart's Piano Concerto in E flat.
8 [with verbal noun] as an integral part of (an activity): in planning public expenditure it is better to be prudent. 
▶adverb
1 expressing movement with the result that someone or something becomes enclosed or surrounded by something else: come in 
bring it in 
presently the admiral breezed in.
2 expressing the situation of being enclosed or surrounded by something: we were locked in.
3 expressing arrival at a destination: the train got in very late.
4 (of the tide) rising or at its highest level.
5 Baseball (of an infielder or outfielder) playing closer to home plate than usual: looking for a force, they brought the infield in. 
• (of a pitch) very close to the batter: he threw a fastball in and up a little. 
▶adjective
1 [predicative] (of a person) present at one's home or office: we knocked at the door but there was no one in.
2 informal fashionable: pastels and light colors are in this year 
the in thing to do.
3 [predicative] (of the ball in tennis and similar games) landing within the designated playing area. 
▶noun a position of influence: he would ensure an in with the nominee. 
PHRASES
be in for have good reason to expect (typically something unpleasant): it looks as if we're in for a storm. 
• (be in for it) have good reason to expect trouble or retribution. have (got) it in for see have. in all see all. in and out of being a frequent visitor to (a house) or frequent inmate of (an institution): he was in and out of jail for most of his twenties. in on privy to (a secret): they were in on the conspiracy. in so far as see insofar. in that for the reason that (used to specify the respect in which a statement is true): I was fortunate in that I had friends. in with informal enjoying friendly relations with: I was in demand because I was in with the right people. the ins and outs informal all the details (of something).ORIGIN Old English in (preposition), inn, inne (adverb), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch and German in (preposition), German ein (adverb), from an Indo-European root shared by Latin in and Greek en .
