interest 
ˈint(ə)rəst

▶noun
1 the state of wanting to know or learn about something or someone: she looked about her with interest. 
• (an interest in) a feeling of wanting to know or learn about (something): he developed an interest in art. 
• the quality of exciting curiosity or holding the attention: a tale full of interest. 
• a subject about which one is concerned or enthusiastic: my particular interest is twentieth-century poetry.
2 money paid regularly at a particular rate for the use of money lent, or for delaying the repayment of a debt: the monthly rate of interest 
[as modifier] : interest payments.
3 the advantage or benefit of a person or group: the merger is not contrary to the public interest 
we are acting in the best interests of our customers. 
• archaic the selfish pursuit of one's own welfare; self-interest.
4 a stake, share, or involvement in an undertaking, especially a financial one: holders of voting rights must disclose their interests 
he must have no personal interest in the outcome of the case. 
• a legal concern, title, or right in property: third parties having an interest in a building.
5 (usually interests) a group or organization having a specified common concern, especially in politics or business: the regulation of national interests in India, Brazil, and Africa. 
▶verb [with object] excite the curiosity or attention of (someone): I thought the book might interest Eric. 
• (interest someone in) cause someone to undertake or acquire (something): efforts were made to interest her in a purchase. 
PHRASES
declare an (or one's) interest make known one's financial interests in an undertaking before it is discussed. in the interests (or interest) of something for the benefit of: in the interests of security we are keeping the information confidential. of interest interesting: much of it is of interest to historians. with interest with interest charged or paid: loans that must be paid back with interest. 
• (of an action) reciprocated with more force or vigor than the original one: he may have a reputation for getting even, with interest.ORIGIN late Middle English (originally as interess): from Anglo-Norman French interesse, from Latin interesse ‘differ, be important,’ from inter- ‘between’ + esse ‘be.’ The -t was added partly by association with Old French interest ‘damage, loss,’ apparently from Latin interest ‘it is important.’ The original sense was ‘the possession of a share in or a right to something’; hence sense
4 of the noun. Sense
1 of the noun and the verb arose in the 18th century sense
2 of the noun was influenced by medieval Latin interesse ‘compensation for a debtor's defaulting.’
