it
1 
it

▶pronoun [third person singular]
1 used to refer to a thing previously mentioned or easily identified: a room with two beds in it 
this approach is refreshing because it breaks down barriers. 
• referring to an animal or child of unspecified sex: she was holding the baby, cradling it and smiling into its face. 
• referring to a fact or situation previously mentioned, known, or happening: stop it, you're hurting me.
2 used to identify a person: it's me 
it's a boy!
3 used in the normal subject position in statements about time, distance, or weather: it's half past five 
it was two miles to the island 
it is raining.
4 used in the normal subject or object position when a more specific subject or object is given later in the sentence: it is impossible to assess the problem 
she found it interesting to learn about their strategy.
5 [with clause] used to emphasize a following part of a sentence: it is the child who is the victim.
6 the situation or circumstances; things in general: no one can stay here—it's too dangerous now 
he would like to see you right away if it's convenient.
7 exactly what is needed or desired: they thought they were it 
you've either got it or you haven't.
8 (usually “it”) informal sex appeal: he's still got “it.” 
• sexual intercourse.
9 [attributive] (It) informal denoting a person or thing that is exceptionally fashionable, popular, or successful at a particular time: they were Hollywood's It couple 
a chef who worked in one of the ‘It’ restaurants in Copenhagen. [after It girl .]
10 (usually “it”) (in children's games) the player who has to catch the others. 
PHRASES
at it see at1. that's it
1 that is the main point or difficulty: “Is she going?” “That's just it—she can't make up her mind.”
2 that is enough or the end: okay, that's it, you've cried long enough. this is it
1 the expected event is about to happen: this is it—the big sale.
2 this is enough or the end: this is it, I'm going.
3 this is the main point or difficulty.ORIGIN Old English hit, neuter of he, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch het .
