jack
1 
jak

▶noun
1 a device for lifting heavy objects, especially one for raising the axle of a motor vehicle off the ground so that a wheel can be changed or the underside inspected.jacks
2 a playing card bearing a representation of a soldier, page, or knave, normally ranking next below a queen.
3 a socket with two or more pairs of terminals, designed to receive a jack plug.
4 (jacks) a game played by tossing and catching small round pebbles or star-shaped pieces of metal or plastic. 
• (also jackstone) a small round pebble or star-shaped piece of metal used in the game of jacks.
5 in lawn bowling, the small ball at which the players aim.
6 (Jack) informal, chiefly US used as a form of address to a man whose name is not known. [familiar form of the given name John.] 
• North American informal a lumberjack. 
• archaic a steeplejack. 
• the figure of a man striking the bell on a clock.
7 a small version of a national flag flown at the bow of a vessel in harbor to indicate its nationality.
8 North American informal, dated money.
9 a device for turning a spit.
10 a part of the mechanism in a spinet or harpsichord that connects a key to its corresponding string and causes the string to be plucked when the key is pressed down.
11 a marine fish that is typically laterally compressed with a row of large spiky scales along each side. Jacks are important in many places as food or game fish. Also called pompano, scad. [originally a West Indian term.] [Family Carangidae (the jack family): many genera and numerous species. The jack family also includes the horse mackerel, pilotfish, kingfishes, and trevallies.]
12 the male of some animals, especially a merlin or an ass.
13 used in names of animals that are smaller than similar kinds, e.g., jacksnipe.
14 short for jackrabbit.
15 US informal short for jack shit. 
PHRASES
before one can say Jack Robinson informal very quickly or suddenly. every man jack informal, dated each and every person (used for emphasis): they're spies, every man jack of them. jack of all trades (and master of none) a person who can do many different types of work but who is not necessarily very competent at any of them.PHRASAL VERBS jack someone around North American informal cause someone inconvenience or problems, especially by acting unfairly or indecisively. jack in (or into) informal log into or connect up (a computer or electronic device).jack off vulgar slang masturbate. jack up informal inject oneself with a narcotic drug. jack something up raise something, especially a vehicle, with a jack. 
• informal increase something by a considerable amount: France jacked up its key bank interest rate.ORIGIN late Middle English: from Jack, nickname for the given name John. The term was used originally to denote an ordinary man ( sense 6), also a youth (mid 16th century), hence the ‘knave’ in cards and ‘male animal.’ The word also denoted various devices saving human labor, as though one had a helper ( sense 1, sense 3, sense 9, and sense 10, and in compounds such as jackhammer and jackknife); the general sense ‘laborer’ arose in the early 18th century and survives in cheapjack, lumberjack, steeplejack, etc. Since the mid 16th century a notion of ‘smallness’ has arisen, hence sense 4, sense 5, sense 7, and sense
13 .
