just 
jəst

▶adjective based on or behaving according to what is morally right and fair: a just and democratic society 
fighting for a just cause. 
• (of treatment) deserved or appropriate in the circumstances: we all get our just deserts. 
• (of an opinion or appraisal) well founded; justifiable: these simplistic approaches have been the subject of just criticism. 
▶adverb
1 exactly: that's just what I need 
you're a human being, just like everyone else 
conditions were just as bad 
you can have it, but not just yet. 
• exactly or almost exactly at this or that moment: she's just coming 
we were just finishing breakfast.
2 very recently; in the immediate past: I've just seen the local paper.
3 barely; by a little: I got here just after nine 
inflation fell to just over
4 percent 
I only just caught the train.
4 simply; only; no more than: they were just interested in making money. 
• really; absolutely (used for emphasis): they're just great. 
• used as a polite formula for giving permission or making a request: just help yourselves. 
• [with modal] possibly (used to indicate a slight chance of something happening or being true): it might just help.
5 British expressing agreement: “Simon really messed things up.” “Didn't he just?” 
PHRASES
just about informal almost exactly; nearly: he can do just about anything. just as well a good or fortunate thing: it was just as well I didn't know at the time. just in case see case1. as a precaution. just a minute, moment, second, etc. used to ask someone to wait or pause for a short time. 
• used to interrupt someone, especially in protest or disagreement.just now
1 at this moment: it's pretty hectic just now.
2 a little time ago: she was talking to me just now. just on British (with reference to time and numbers) exactly: it was just on midnight. just the same nevertheless: I put on my raincoat and big straw hat. But we got soaked just the same. just so
1 arranged or done very neatly and carefully: polishing the furniture and making everything just so.
2 British formal used to express agreement.DERIVATIVES justness 
ˈjəstnəs 
nounORIGIN late Middle English: via Old French from Latin justus, from jus ‘law, right.’
