kiss 
kis

▶verb [with object] touch with the lips as a sign of love, sexual desire, reverence, or greeting: he kissed her on the lips 
[with object and complement] : she kissed the children goodnight 
[no object] : we started kissing. 
• Billiards (of a ball) lightly touch (another ball) in passing. 
▶noun
1 a touch with the lips in kissing. 
• Billiards a slight touch of a ball against another ball. 
• used to express affection at the end of a letter (conventionally represented by the letter X): she sent lots of love and a whole line of kisses.
2 North American a small cake or cookie, typically a meringue. 
• a small candy, especially one made of chocolate. 
PHRASES
kiss and make up become reconciled. kiss and tell recount one's sexual exploits, especially to the media concerning a famous person: [as adjective] : this isn't a kiss-and-tell book. kiss someone's ass vulgar slang behave obsequiously toward someone.kiss ass North American vulgar slang behave in an obsequious or sycophantic way. kiss something good-bye (or kiss good-bye to something) informal accept the certain loss of something: I could kiss my career good-bye.kiss something to make it better informal comfort a sick or injured person, especially a child, by kissing the sore or injured part of their body as a gesture of removing pain. kiss of death 
ˌkis əv ˈdeTH 
an action or event that causes certain failure for an enterprise: it would be the kiss of death for the company if it could be proved that the food was unsafe. kiss of life 
ˌkis əv ˈlīf 
mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. 
• an action or event that revives a failing enterprise: good ratings gave the program the kiss of life. kiss of peace a ceremonial kiss given or exchanged as a sign of unity, especially during the Christian Eucharist. kiss the rod accept punishment submissively.PHRASAL VERBS kiss someone/something off North American informal dismiss someone rudely; end a relationship abruptly. kiss up to North American informal behave sycophantically or obsequiously toward (someone) in order to obtain something.DERIVATIVES kissable 
ˈkisəb(ə)l 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English cyssan (verb), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch kussen and German küssen .
