last
1 
last

▶adjective [attributive]
1 coming after all others in time or order; final: they caught the last bus. 
• met with or encountered after any others: the last house in the village. 
• the lowest in importance or rank: finishing in last place 
[as complement] : he came last in the race. 
• (the last) the least likely or suitable: addicts are often the last people to face up to their problems 
the last thing she needed was a husband.
2 most recent in time; latest: last year 
[postpositive] : your letter of Sunday last. 
• immediately preceding in order; previous in a sequence or enumeration: their last album 
this last point is critical.
3 only remaining: it's our last hope. 
▶adverb
1 on the last occasion before the present; previously: he looked much older than when I'd last seen him.
2 [in combination] after all others in order or sequence: the two last-mentioned classes.
3 (especially in enumerating points) finally; in conclusion: and last, I'd like to thank you all for coming. 
▶noun (plural same) the last person or thing; the one occurring, mentioned, or acting after all others: the last of their guests had gone 
eating as if every mouthful were his last. 
• (the last of) the only part of something that remains: they drank the last of the wine. 
• [in singular] last position in a race, contest, or ranking: he came from last in a slowly run race. 
• (the last) the end or last moment, especially death: she did love me to the last. 
• (the last) the last mention or sight of someone or something: that was the last we saw of her. 
PHRASES
at last (or at long last) after much delay: you've come back to me at last! —— one's last do something for the last time: the dying embers sparked their last. last but not least last in order of mention or occurrence but just as important. last call (British last orders) (in a bar) said to inform customers that closing time is approaching and that any further drinks should be purchased immediately: the hours were 11:00 last call and drink up by 11:15. one's (or the) last gasp see gasp. the last straw see straw. on one's last legs see leg. ORIGIN Old English latost (adverb) ‘after all others in a series,’ of Germanic origin; related to Dutch laatst, lest and German letzt, also to late .
