lay
1 
▶verb
1 Curtis laid the newspaper on the table: put, place, set, put down, set down, deposit, rest, situate, locate, position; informal stick, dump, park, plunk.
2 the act laid the foundation for the new system: set in place, put in place, set out; set up, establish.
3 I'll lay money that Michelle will be there: bet, wager, gamble, stake, risk, hazard, venture; (lay money) give odds, speculate.
4 they are going to lay charges: bring, press, bring forward, lodge, register, place, file.
5 she laid the blame on Maxwell: assign to, attribute to, ascribe to, allot to, attach to; (lay the blame on) hold someone accountable, hold someone responsible, find guilty.
6 we laid out plans for the next voyage: devise, arrange, make, make ready, prepare, work out, hatch, design, plan, scheme, plot, conceive, put together, draw up, produce, develop, concoct, formulate, cook up.
7 this will lay responsibility on the court: impose, apply, entrust, vest, place, put; inflict, encumber, saddle, charge, burden.
8 we laid the trap and waited: set, prepare, devise, bait.
PHRASES
lay something aside
1 farmers laying aside areas for conservation: put aside, put to one side, keep, save.
2 developers must lay aside their conservatism: abandon, cast aside, set aside, reject, renounce, repudiate, disregard, forget, discard; literary forsake. lay something bare his private life has been laid bare: reveal, disclose, divulge, show, expose, exhibit, uncover, unveil, unmask, make known, make public. lay something down
1 he laid down his glass: put down, set down, place down, deposit, rest; informal plunk down.
2 they were forced to lay down their weapons: relinquish, surrender, give up, yield, cede.
3 the ground rules have been laid down: formulate, stipulate, set down, draw up, frame; prescribe, ordain, dictate, decree; enact, pass, decide, determine, impose, codify. lay down the law too many parents have relinquished their right to lay down the law: be dogmatic, be in charge (of the rules), set the rules, be domineering, be the boss, call the shots. lay eyes on informal something clicked the first time they laid eyes on each other: see, spot, observe, regard, view, catch sight of, set eyes on; literary behold, espy, descry. lay hands on wait till I lay my hands on you! catch, lay/get hold of, get one's hands on, seize, grab, grasp, capture. lay into informal
1 the general's henchmen were encouraged to publicly lay into dissenters. See assault (sense
1 of the verb).
2 he laid into her with a string of insults. See criticize. lay it on thick informal oh, brother, can he lay it on thick when he wants to impress a girl: exaggerate, overdo it, embellish the truth; flatter, praise, soft-soap, pile it on, sweet-talk. lay off informal
1 I have to lay off beer: give up, abstain from, desist from, cut out.
2 I lay off work at 5: quit, pack in, leave off, stop.
3 lay off, you big jerk! back off, give it a rest, enough already, shut up, stop it.
4 three more couriers were laid off today: dismiss, let go, discharge, give notice to, release; informal sack, fire, ax, give someone their marching orders, pink-slip, give someone the boot, give someone the (old) heave-ho. lay out
1 Robyn laid the plans out on the desk: spread out, set out, display, exhibit.
2 a paper laying out our priorities: outline, sketch out, rough out, detail, draw up, formulate, work out, frame, draft.
3 informal he had to lay out $70. See pay (sense
2 of the verb). lay waste to any further testing at this site will lay waste to an irreplaceable ecosystem: devastate, wipe out, destroy, demolish, annihilate, raze, ruin, wreck, level, flatten, ravage, pillage, sack, despoil. 
USAGE
lay, lie The verb lay means, broadly, 'put something down': they are going to lay the carpet. The past tense and the past participle of lay is laid:they laid the groundwork; she had laid careful plans. The verb lie, on the other hand, means 'assume a horizontal or resting position': why don't you lie on the floor? The past tense of lie is lay:he lay on the floor earlier in the day. The past participle of lie is lain:she had lain on the bed for hours. In practice, many speakers inadvertently get the lay forms and the lie forms into a tangle of right and wrong usage. Here are some examples of typical incorrect usage: have you been laying on the sofa all day? (should be lying); he lay the books on the table (should be laid); I had laid in this position so long, my arm was stiff (should be lain). See also lie2 .Usage notes show additional guidance on finer points of English usage.
