lick 
lik

▶verb [with object]
1 pass the tongue over (something), typically in order to taste, moisten, or clean it: he licked the stamp and stuck it on the envelope 
[no object] : he licked at his damaged hand with his tongue. 
• [no object] (of a flame, wave, or breeze) move lightly and quickly like a tongue: the flames licked around the wood.
2 informal defeat (someone) comprehensively: all right, Mary, I know when I'm licked. 
• thrash: she stands tall and could lick any man in the place. 
▶noun
1 an act of licking something with the tongue: Sammy gave his fingers a long lick. 
• a movement of flame, water, etc., resembling this.
2 informal a light coating or quick application of something, especially paint: all she'd need to do to the kitchen was give it a lick of paint. 
• [in singular] [usually with negative] US an extremely small amount of something abstract: there's not a lick of suspense in the entire plot.
3 (often licks) informal a short phrase or solo in jazz or popular music: cool guitar licks.
4 informal a smart blow: his mother gave him several licks for daring to blaspheme. 
PHRASES
at a lick informal at a fast pace; with considerable speed. a lick and a promise informal a hasty performance of a task, especially of cleaning something. lick someone's ass vulgar slang be excessively obsequious toward someone. lick someone's boots be excessively obsequious toward someone. lick someone/something into shape see shape. lick one's lips (or chops) look forward to something with eager anticipation.lick one's wounds retire to recover one's strength or confidence after a defeat or humiliating experience: the political organization he worked for was licking its wounds after electoral defeat. not be able to do something a lick US informal be totally incompetent at a specified activity: I couldn't sing a lick.DERIVATIVES licker noun [usually in combination] ORIGIN Old English liccian; related to Dutch likken and German lecken, from an Indo-European root shared by Greek leikhein and Latin lingere .
