life 
▶noun
1 the joy of giving life to a child: existence, being, living, animation; sentience, creation, viability. ANTONYMS death, nonexistence.
2 threats to life on the planet: living things, living beings, living creatures, the living; human/animal/plant life, fauna, flora, ecosystems; human beings, humanity, humankind, mankind, man.
3 an easy life: way of life, lifestyle, situation, fate, lot.
4 the last nine months of his life: lifetime, life span, days, time on earth, existence.
5 he is full of life: vivacity, animation, liveliness, vitality, verve, high spirits, exuberance, zest, buoyancy, enthusiasm, energy, vigor, dynamism, elan, gusto, brio, bounce, spirit, fire; movement; informal oomph, pizzazz, pep, zing, zip, vim.
6 the life of the party: moving spirit, vital spirit, spirit, life force, lifeblood, heart, soul.
7 more than 1,500 lives were lost in the accident: person, human being, individual, soul.
8 I really wanted a new car, but that's life: the way of the world, the way things go, the human condition; fate, destiny, providence, kismet, karma, fortune, luck, chance; informal the way the cookie crumbles, the breaks.
PHRASES
come to life
1 the kids are finally coming to life: become active, come alive, wake up, awaken, arouse, rouse, stir; literary waken.
2 the carved angel suddenly came to life: become animate, come alive. for dear life we held on to the rope for dear life: desperately, with all one's might, for all one is worth, as fast/hard as possible, like the devil. give one's life
1 he would give his life for her: die for, lay down one's life for, sacrifice oneself for, offer one's life for, die to save.
2 he gave his life to the company: dedicate oneself, devote oneself, give oneself, surrender oneself. 
WORD LINKS
life bio- forming words meaning ‘relating to life or living beings,’ such as biosphere (‘the parts of the earth inhabited by living things’) animate alive; having lifeWord Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.QUOTE Life is not having been told that the man has just waxed the floor.Ogden Nash “You and Me and 
P.  
B.  Shelley” (1942)
