like
1 
līk

▶preposition
1 having the same characteristics or qualities as; similar to: there were other suits like mine in the shop 
they were like brothers 
she looked nothing like Audrey Hepburn. 
• in the manner of; in the same way or to the same degree as: he was screaming like a banshee 
you must run like the wind. 
• in a way appropriate to: students were angry at being treated like children. 
• such as one might expect from; characteristic of: just like you to put a damper on people's enjoyment. 
• used in questions to ask about the characteristics or nature of someone or something: What is it like to be a tuna fisherman? 
What's she like?
2 used to draw attention to the nature of an action or event: I apologize for coming over unannounced like this 
why are you talking about me like that?
3 such as; for example: the cautionary vision of works like Animal Farm and 1984. 
▶conjunction informal
1 in the same way that; as: people who change countries like they change clothes.
2 as though; as if: I felt like I'd been kicked by a camel. 
▶noun used with reference to a person or thing of the same kind as another: the quotations could be arranged to put like with like 
I know him—him and his like. 
• (the like) a thing or things of the same kind (often used to express surprise or for emphasis): did you ever hear the like? 
a church interior the like of which he had never seen before. 
▶adjective (of a person or thing) having similar qualities or characteristics to another person or thing: I responded in like manner 
the grouping of children of like ability together. 
• British (of a portrait or other image) having a faithful resemblance to the original: “Who painted the dog's picture? It's very like.” 
▶adverb
1 informal used in speech as a meaningless filler or to signify the speaker's uncertainty about an expression just used: there was this funny smell—sort of dusty like.
2 informal used to convey a person's reported attitude or feelings in the form of direct speech (whether or not representing an actual quotation): so she comes into the room and she's like “Where is everybody?”
3 (like as/to) archaic in the manner of: like as a ship with dreadful storm long tossed. 
PHRASES
and the like and similar things; et cetera. like anything informal to a great degree: they would probably worry like anything. (as) like as not probably: she would be in bed by now, like as not. like enough (or most like) archaic probably: he'll have lost a deal of blood, I dare say, and like enough he's still losing it.like ——, like —— as —— is, so is ——: like father, like son. like so informal in this manner: the votive candles are arranged like so. the likes of informal used of someone or something regarded as a type: she didn't want to associate with the likes of me. more like informal nearer to (a specified number or description) than one previously given: he believes the figure should be more like $10 million. 
• (more like it) nearer to what is required or expected; more satisfactory. of (a) like mind (of a person) sharing the same opinions or tastes.ORIGIN Middle English: from líkr; related to alike . usage: The use of like as a conjunction meaning ‘as’ or ‘as if’ ( I don't have a wealthy set of in-laws like you do; they sit up like they're begging for food) is considered by many to be incorrect. Although like has been used as a conjunction in this way since the 15th century by many respected writers, it is still frowned upon and considered unacceptable in formal English. In more precise use, like is a preposition, used before nouns and pronouns: to fly like a bird; a town like ours. See also usage at go1 .
