little 
ˈlidl

▶adjective small in size, amount, or degree (often used to convey an appealing diminutiveness or express an affectionate or condescending attitude): the plants will grow into little bushes 
a little puppy dog 
a boring little man 
he's a good little worker. 
• (of a person) young or younger: my little brother 
when she was little she was always getting into scrapes. 
• denoting something, especially a place, that is named after a similar larger one: New York's Little Italy. 
• used in names of animals and plants that are smaller than related kinds, e.g., little grebe. 
• of short distance or duration: stay for a little while 
we climbed up a little way. 
• relatively unimportant; trivial (often used ironically): we have a little problem 
I can't remember every little detail. 
▶det. & pronoun
1 (a little) a small amount of: [as determiner] : we got a little help from my sister 
[as pronoun] : you only see a little of what he can do. 
• [pronoun] a short time or distance: after a little, the rain stopped.
2 used to emphasize how small an amount is: [as determiner] : I have little doubt of their identity 
there was very little time to be lost 
[as pronoun] : he ate and drank very little 
the ruble is worth so little these days. 
▶adverb (less 
les
, least 
lēst
)
1 (a little) to a small extent: he reminded me a little of my parents 
I was always a little afraid of her.
2 (used for emphasis) only to a small extent; not much or often: he was little known in this country 
he had slept little these past weeks. 
• hardly or not at all: little did he know what wheels he was putting into motion. 
PHRASES
in little archaic on a small scale; in miniature. little by little by degrees; gradually: little by little the money dried up. little or nothing hardly anything. make little of treat as unimportant: they made little of their royal connection. no little considerable: a factor of no little importance. not a little a great deal (of); much: not a little consternation was caused. 
• very: it was not a little puzzling. quite a little a fairly large amount of: some spoke quite a little English. 
• a considerable: it turned out to be quite a little bonanza.DERIVATIVES littleness 
ˈlidlnəs 
nounORIGIN Old English lȳtel, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch luttel,German dialect lützel .
