lock
1 
läk

▶noun
1 a mechanism for keeping a door, lid, etc., fastened, typically operated only by a key of a particular form: the key turned firmly in the lock. 
• a device used to prevent the operation or movement of a vehicle or other machine: a bicycle lock. 
• a facility on a computer or mobile phone that requires a user to verify their identity with a passcode or other form of authentication in order to access the full functionality of the device: there's a security lock on the phone and he doesn't know the code. 
• (in wrestling and martial arts) a hold that prevents an opponent from moving a limb. 
• [in singular] archaic a number of interlocked or jammed items: a street closed by a lock of carriages.
2 a short confined section of a canal or other waterway in which the water level can be changed by the use of gates and sluices, used for raising and lowering vessels between two gates. 
• an airlock.
3 (a lock) North American informal a person or thing that is certain to succeed; a certainty.
4 historical a mechanism for exploding the charge of a gun. 
▶verb
1 [with object] fasten or secure (something) with a lock: she closed and locked her desk. 
• enclose or shut in by locking or fastening a door, lid, etc.: the prisoners are locked in overnight 
Phil locked away the takings every night. 
• [no object] (of a door, window, box, etc.) become or be able to be secured through activation of a lock: the door will automatically lock behind you.
2 restrict access to the full functionality or data of (a computer, mobile phone, file, etc.), especially by requiring a user to verify their identity with a passcode or other form of authentication: my computer is locked and I've forgotten my login info 
I don't want people to read my emails—that's why I lock my phone. 
• (be locked) (of a mobile phone) operate only on the network of a particular carrier: the phone is locked to T-mobile.
3 make or become rigidly fixed or immovable: [with object] : he locked his hands behind her neck 
the vessel was locked in ice 
[no object] : their gaze locked for several long moments.
4 [no object] go through a lock on a canal: we locked through at Moore Haven. 
PHRASES
have a lock on North American informal have an unbreakable hold on or total control over. lock horns engage in conflict. lock, stock, and barrel including everything; completely: the place is owned lock, stock, and barrel by an oil company. [referring to the complete mechanism of a firearm.] under lock and key securely locked up.PHRASAL VERBS lock someone down North American confine a prisoner to their cell, especially so as to gain control. lock someone/something in (or into) involve or entangle someone or something in (an embrace or struggle): they were locked in a legal battle. 
• oblige a person or company to abide by the terms of a contract for a specific period.lock onto locate (a target) by radar or similar means and then track. lock someone out
1 keep someone out of a room or building by locking the door.
2 (of an employer) subject employees to a lockout. lock someone out of exclude someone from: those now locked out of the job market. lock someone up (or away) imprison someone.lock something up (also lock up) shut and secure something, especially a building, by fastening its doors with locks: the diplomatic personnel locked up their building and walked off 
you could lock up for me when you leave. 
• (also lock something away) invest money in something so that it is not easily accessible: vast sums of money locked up in pension funds.DERIVATIVES lockable 
ˈläkəb(ə)l 
adjective. lockless adjectiveORIGIN Old English loc, of Germanic origin; related to German Loch ‘hole.’
