lot 
lät

▶pronoun (a lot or lots) informal a large number or amount; a great deal: there are a lot of actors in the cast 
they took a lot of abuse 
a lot can happen in eight months 
we had lots of fun. 
• (the lot or the whole lot) the whole number or quantity that is involved or implied: you might as well take the whole lot. 
▶adverb (a lot or lots) informal a great deal; much: my life is a lot better now 
he played tennis a lot last year 
thanks a lot 
I feel a whole lot better. 
▶noun
1 [treated as singular or plural] informal a particular group, collection, or set of people or things: it's just one lot of rich people stealing from another. 
• a group or a person of a particular kind (generally used in a derogatory or dismissive way): an inefficient lot, our town council 
he was known as a bad lot 
you lot think you're clever, don't you?
2 an article or set of articles for sale at an auction: nineteen lots failed to sell 
the picture is lot 16.
3 one of a set of objects such as straws, stones, or pieces of paper that are randomly selected as part of a decision-making process: they drew lots to determine the order in which they asked questions. 
• the making of a decision by random selection: officers were elected rather than selected by lot. 
• [in singular] the choice resulting from a decision made by random selection: eventually the lot fell on the king's daughter.
4 [in singular] a person's luck or condition in life, particularly as determined by fate or destiny: plans to improve the lot of the disadvantaged.
5 chiefly North American a plot of land assigned for sale or for a particular use: a vacant lot 
a fenced-off back lot. 
• short for parking lot. 
• an area of land near a television or movie studio where outside filming may be done. 
• the area at a car dealership where cars for sale are kept. 
▶verb (lots, lotting, lotted) [with object] divide (items) into lots for sale at an auction: the contents have already been lotted up, and the auction takes place on Monday. 
PHRASES
all over the lot US informal in a state of confusion or disorganization. fall to someone's lot become someone's task or responsibility: they accepted the burden of domestic responsibilities that fell to their lot. throw in one's lot with decide to ally oneself closely with and share the fate of (a person or group).ORIGIN Old English hlot (noun), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch lot,German Los. The original meanings were sense
3 of the noun and (by extension) the sense ‘a portion assigned to someone’; the latter gave rise to the other noun senses. The pronoun and adverb uses date from the early 19th century. usage:
1 The expressions a lot of and lots of are used before nouns to mean ‘a large number or amount of.’ In common with other words denoting quantities, lot itself does not normally function as a head noun, meaning that it does not itself determine whether the following verb is singular or plural. Thus, although lot is singular in a lot of people, the verb that follows is not singular. In this case, the word people acts as the head noun and, being plural, ensures that the following verb is also plural: a lot of people were assembled (not a lot of people was assembled). See also usage at number.2 A lot of and lots of are very common in speech and writing, but they still have a distinctly informal feel and are generally not considered acceptable for formal English, where alternatives such as many or a large number are used instead.
3 Written as one word, alot is incorrect, although not uncommon.
