man 
▶noun
1 a handsome man: male, adult male, gentleman; informal guy, fellow, fella, joe, geezer, gent, bloke, chap, dude, hombre; (men) menfolk.
2 all men are mortal: human being, human, person, mortal, individual, personage, soul.
3 the evolution of man: the human race, the human species, Homo sapiens , humankind, humanity, human beings, humans, people, mankind.
4 the men voted to go on strike: worker, workman, laborer, hand, blue-collar worker; staff.
5 have you met her new man? boyfriend, partner, husband, spouse, lover, admirer, fiancé; common-law husband, live-in lover, significant other; informal steady, (main) squeeze, BF, boo, toy boy, sugar daddy, intended; dated beau, young man.
6 his man brought him a cocktail. See manservant. 
▶verb
1 the office is manned from
9 to 5: staff, crew, occupy, people.
2 firefighters manned the pumps: operate, work, use, utilize.
PHRASES
man to man can we speak man to man? frankly, openly, honestly, directly, candidly, plainly, forthrightly, without beating about the bush; woman to woman. to a man the squad volunteered, to a man, to work another full shift in the rescue mission: without exception, with no exceptions, bar none, one and all, everyone, each and every one, unanimously, as one. 
WORD LINKS
man male , masculine , virile relating to men androcentric focused or centered on menWord Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.
USAGE
man Traditionally, the word man has been used to refer not only to adult males but also to human beings in general, regardless of gender. There is a historical explanation for this: in Old English, the principal sense of man was ‘a human being,’ and the words wer and wif were used to refer specifically to ‘a male person’ and ‘a female person,’ respectively. Subsequently, man replaced wer as the normal term for ‘a male person,’ but at the same time the older sense ‘a human being’ remained in use. In the second half of the 20th century, the generic use of man to refer to ‘human beings in general’ (as in reptiles were here long before man appeared on the earth) became problematic; the use is now often regarded as sexist or old-fashioned. In some contexts, terms such as the human race or humankind may be used instead of man or mankind. Certain fixed phrases and sayings, such as time and tide wait for no man can be easily rephrased (e.g., time and tide wait for no one). Alternatives for other related terms exist as well: the noun manpower, for example, can usually be replaced with staff or crew, and in most cases, the verbal form to man can be expressed as to staff or to operate .Usage notes show additional guidance on finer points of English usage.
