match
1 
maCH

▶noun
1 a contest in which people or teams compete against each other in a particular sport: a boxing match.
2 a person or thing able to contend with another as an equal in quality or strength: they were no match for the trained mercenaries.
3 a person or thing that resembles or corresponds to another: the child's identical twin would be a perfect match for organ donation. 
• Computing a string that fulfills the specified conditions of a computer search. 
• a pair that corresponds or is very similar: the headdresses and bouquet were a perfect match. 
• the fact or appearance of corresponding: stones of a perfect match and color.
4 a person viewed in regard to their eligibility for marriage, especially as regards class or wealth: he was an unsuitable match for any of their girls. 
• a marriage: a dynastic match. 
▶verb [with object]
1 correspond or cause to correspond in some essential respect; make or be harmonious: [with object] : we bought green and blue curtains to match the bedspread 
she matched her steps to his 
[no object] : the jacket and pants do not match. 
• team (someone or something) with someone or something else appropriate or harmonious: they matched suitably qualified applicants with institutions that had vacancies 
she was trying to match the draperies to the couch.
2 be equal to (something) in quality or strength: his anger matched her own. 
• succeed in reaching or equaling (a standard or quality): he tried to match her nonchalance. 
• equalize (two coupled electrical impedances) so as to bring about the maximum transfer of power from one to the other.
3 place (a person or group) in contest or competition with another: the big names were matched against nobodies 
(as adjective, with submodifier matched) : evenly matched teams. 
PHRASES
make a match form a partnership, especially by getting married. meet one's match encounter one's equal in strength or ability: Iris had met her match. to match corresponding in some essential respect with something previously mentioned or chosen: a new coat and a hat to match.PHRASAL VERBS match up to be as good as or equal to: she matches up to the challenges of the job. match someone with archaic bring about the marriage of someone to: try if you can to match her with a duke.DERIVATIVES matchable adjectiveORIGIN Old English gemæcca ‘mate, companion’; related to the base of make .
