matter 
ˈmadər

▶noun
1 physical substance in general, as distinct from mind and spirit; (in physics) that which occupies space and possesses rest mass, especially as distinct from energy: the structure and properties of matter. 
• a substance or material: organic matter 
vegetable matter 
fecal matter. 
• written or printed material: reading matter.
2 an affair or situation under consideration; a topic: a great deal of work was done on this matter 
financial matters. 
• Law something that is to be tried or proved in court; a case. 
• (matters) the present situation or state of affairs: we can do nothing to change matters. 
• (a matter for/of) something that evokes a specified feeling: it's a matter of complete indifference to me. 
• (a matter for) something that is the concern of a specified person or agency: the evidence is a matter for the courts.
3 [usually with negative or in questions] (the matter) the reason for distress or a problem: what's the matter? 
pretend that nothing's the matter.
4 the substance or content of a text as distinct from its manner or form. 
• Printing the body of a printed work, as distinct from titles, headings, etc. 
• Logic the particular content of a proposition, as distinct from its form. 
▶verb [no object]
1 [usually with negative or in questions] be of importance; have significance: it doesn't matter what the guests wear 
what did it matter to them? 
to him, animals mattered more than human beings. 
• (of a person) be important or influential: she was trying to get known by the people who matter.
2 rare, chiefly US (of a wound) secrete or discharge pus. 
PHRASES
for that matter used to indicate that a subject or category, though mentioned second, is as relevant or important as the first: I am not sure what value it adds to determining public, or for that matter private, policy. in the matter of as regards: the British are given preeminence in the matter of tea. it is only a matter of time there will not be long to wait: it's only a matter of time before the general is removed. a matter of
1 no more than (a specified period of time): they were shown the door in a matter of minutes.
2 a thing that involves or depends on: it's a matter of working out how to get something done. a matter of course the natural or expected thing: the reports are published as a matter of course. a matter of form a point of correct procedure: they must as a matter of proper form check to see that there is no tax liability. a matter of record see record. no matter
1 [with clause] regardless of: no matter what the government calls them, they are cuts.
2 it is of no importance: “No matter, I'll go myself.” to make matters worse with the result that a bad situation is made worse. what matter? British dated why should that worry us?: what matter if he was a Protestant or not?ORIGIN Middle English: via Old French from Latin materia ‘timber, substance,’ also ‘subject of discourse,’ from mater ‘mother.’
