melt 
melt

▶verb
1 make or become liquefied by heat: [no object] : place under the broiler until the cheese has melted 
[with object] : the hot metal melted the wax 
the icebergs were melting away 
(as adjective melted) : asparagus with melted butter. 
• [with object] (melt something down) melt something, especially a metal article, so that the material it is made of can be used again: beautiful objects are being melted down and sold for scrap. 
• dissolve in liquid: add a cup of sugar and boil until the sugar melts.
2 make or become more tender or loving: [no object] : she was so beautiful that I melted 
[with object] : Richard gave her a smile that melted her heart.
3 [no object] leave or disappear unobtrusively: the compromise was accepted and the opposition melted away 
the figure melted into thin air. 
• (melt into) change or merge imperceptibly into (another form or state): the cheers melted into gasps of admiration. 
▶noun an act of melting: the precipitation falls as snow and is released during the spring melt. 
• metal or other material in a melted condition. 
• an amount melted at any one time. 
• [with modifier] North American a sandwich, hamburger, or other dish containing or topped with melted cheese: a tuna melt. 
PHRASES
melt in the (or your) mouth (of food) be deliciously light or tender and need little or no chewing: my shortbread melts in the mouth 
[as adjective] : melt-in-your-mouth chicken livers.PHRASAL VERBS melt down
1 collapse or break down disastrously: many expected him to melt down at the first sign of trouble.
2 (of a nuclear reactor) undergo a catastrophic failure as a result of the fuel overheating: if the pumps that cool the reactor core become disabled the core could begin to overheat, and the reactor could melt down.DERIVATIVES meltable adjective. melter 
ˈmeltər 
noun. meltingly adverbORIGIN Old English meltan, mieltan, of Germanic origin; related to Old Norse melta ‘to malt, digest,’ from an Indo-European root shared by Greek meldein ‘to melt,’ Latin mollis ‘soft,’ also by malt .
