mind 
▶noun
1 expand your mind: brain, intelligence, intellect, intellectual capabilities, brains, brainpower, wits, understanding, reasoning, judgment, sense, head; informal gray matter, brain cells, smarts.
2 he kept his mind on the job: attention, thoughts, concentration, attentiveness.
3 the tragedy affected her mind: sanity, mental faculties, senses, wits, reason, reasoning, judgment; informal marbles.
4 Justin's words stuck in her mind: memory, recollection.
5 the country's great minds: intellect, thinker, brain, scholar, academic.
6 I've a mind to complain: inclination, desire, wish, urge, notion, fancy, intention, will.
7 we're of the same mind: opinion, way of thinking, outlook, attitude, view, viewpoint, point of view.
▶verb
1 do you mind if I smoke? care, object, be bothered, be annoyed, be upset, take offense, disapprove, dislike it, look askance; informal give a damn, give a hoot.
2 mind the step! be careful of, watch out for, look out for, beware of, be on one's guard for, be wary of.
3 mind you wipe your feet: be/make sure (that) you, see (that) you; remember to, don't forget to.
4 her husband was minding the baby: look after, take care of, keep an eye on, attend to, care for, tend, babysit.
5 mind what your mother says: pay attention to, heed, pay heed to, attend to, take note/notice of, note, mark, listen to, be mindful of; obey, follow, comply with.
PHRASES
be of two minds I am of two minds about going to law school: be undecided, be uncertain, be unsure, hesitate, waver, vacillate, hem and haw; informal dilly-dally, shilly-shally. bear/keep in mind just bear in mind that you are not alone: remember, note, be mindful of, take note of; formal take cognizance of. cross one's mind did it ever cross your mind that he just doesn't want to go? occur to one, enter one's mind/head, strike one, hit one, dawn on one. give someone a piece of one's mind I'd really like to give that lying Patterson a piece of my mind. See reprimand (verb). have in mind now, for the curtains, do you have a specific pattern in mind? think of, contemplate; intend, plan, propose, desire, want, wish. never mind
1 never mind the cost: don't bother about, don't worry about, disregard, forget.
2 never mind, it's all right now: don't apologize, forget it, don't worry about it, it doesn't matter. out of one's mind
1 you must be out of your mind! See mad (sense 1).
2 I've been out of my mind with worry: frantic, beside oneself, distraught, in a frenzy. put someone in mind of the view here puts me in mind of Amsterdam: remind of, recall, conjure up, suggest; resemble, look like. to my mind to my mind, this is a clear case of blackmail: in my opinion, in my view, as I see it, in my estimation, in my book, if you ask me. 
WORD LINKS
mind mental , cognitive relating to the mind psychology the study of the mind psychiatry the branch of medicine concerned with the mindWord Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.
