muscle 
ˈməsəl

▶noun
1 a band or bundle of fibrous tissue in a human or animal body that has the ability to contract, producing movement in or maintaining the position of parts of the body: the calf muscle 
the sheet of muscle between the abdomen and chest. 
• a band or bundle of tissue when well developed or prominently visible under the skin: showing off our muscles to prove how strong we were. Muscles are formed of bands, sheets, or columns of elongated cells (or fibers) containing interlocking parallel arrays of the proteins actin and myosin. Projections on the myosin molecules respond to chemical signals by forming and reforming chemical bonds to the actin, so that the filaments move past each other and interlock more deeply. This converts chemical energy into the mechanical force of contraction, and also generates heat.
2 physical power; strength: he had muscle but no brains. 
• informal a person or people exhibiting physical power or strength: an ex-marine of enormous proportions who'd been brought along as muscle. 
• power or influence, especially in a commercial or political context: he had enough muscle and resources to hold his position on the council. 
▶verb [with object] informal chiefly North American move (an object) in a particular direction by using one's physical strength: they were muscling baggage into the hold of the plane. 
• coerce by violence or by economic or political pressure: he was eventually muscled out of business. 
PHRASES
flex one's muscles give a show of strength or power. not move a muscle be completely motionless.PHRASAL VERBS muscle in/into informal force one's way into (something), typically in order to gain an advantage: muscling his way into meetings and important conferences 
he was determined to muscle in on the union's affairs. muscle up US informal build up one's muscles.DERIVATIVES muscleless adjectiveORIGIN late Middle English: from French, from Latin musculus, diminutive of mus ‘mouse’ (some muscles being thought to be mouselike in form).
