nail 
nāl

▶noun
1 a small metal spike with a broadened flat head, driven typically into wood with a hammer to join things together or to serve as a peg or hook.nails
2 a horny covering on the upper surface of the tip of the finger and toe in humans and other primates. 
• an animal's claw. 
• a hard growth on the upper mandible of some soft-billed birds.
3 historical a medieval unit of measurement. 
• a measure of length for cloth, equal to 21/4 inches. 
• a measure of wool, beef, or other commodity, roughly equal to
7 or
8 pounds. 
▶verb [with object]
1 fasten to a surface or to something else with a nail or nails: nail the edge framing to the wall 
the teacher was nailing up the lists.
2 informal expose (someone) as deceitful or criminal; catch or arrest: have you nailed the killer? 
• expose (a lie or other instance of deception).
3 American Football, informal tackle the quarterback or ballcarrier, especially at or behind the line of scrimmage. 
• Baseball (of a fielder) put (a runner) out by throwing to a base: he dropped a perfect throw home that should have nailed Joe by yards. 
• chiefly North American (of a player) defeat or outwit (an opponent): Navratilova tried to nail her on the backhand side. 
• (of a player) secure (especially a victory) conclusively: there's no doubt I had chances to nail it in the last set.
4 vulgar slang, chiefly US (of a man) have sexual intercourse with (someone). 
PHRASES
fight tooth and nail see tooth. hard as nails (of a person) very tough; completely callous or unfeeling. a nail in the coffin an action or event regarded as likely to have a detrimental or destructive effect on a situation, enterprise, or person: this was going to put the final nail in the coffin of his career. on the nail British (of payment) without delay.PHRASAL VERBS nail someone down elicit a firm promise or commitment from someone: I can't nail her down to a specific date. nail something down
1 fasten something securely with nails.
2 identify something precisely: something seems unexpected—I can't nail it down, but it makes me uneasy.
3 secure something, especially an agreement: the company has finally nailed down the agreement with its distributors.DERIVATIVES nailless adjectiveORIGIN Old English nægel (noun), næglan (verb), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch nagel and German Nagel, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin unguis and Greek onux .
