narrow 
ˈnerō

▶adjective (narrower, narrowest)
1 (especially of something that is considerably longer or higher than it is wide) of small width: he made his way down the narrow road.
2 limited in extent, amount, or scope; restricted: his ability to get good results within narrow constraints of money and manpower. 
• (of a person's attitude or beliefs) limited in range and lacking willingness or ability to appreciate alternative views: companies fail through their narrow view of what contributes to profit. 
• precise or strict in meaning: some of the narrower definitions of democracy. 
• (of a phonetic transcription) showing fine details of accent. 
• Phonetics denoting a vowel pronounced with the root of the tongue drawn back so as to narrow the pharynx.
3 denoting or relating to a contest that is won or lost by only a very small margin: the home team just hung on for a narrow victory. 
▶verb
1 become or make less wide: [no object] : the road narrowed and crossed an old bridge 
[with object] : the embankment was built to narrow the river. 
• almost close (one's eyes) so as to focus on something or someone, or to indicate anger, suspicion, or other emotion: [with object] : she narrowed her eyes at him suspiciously 
[no object] : Jake's eyes had narrowed to pinpoints.
2 become or make more limited or restricted in extent or scope: [no object] : their trade surplus narrowed to $70 million in January 
[with object] : New England had narrowed Denver's lead from
13 points to 4. 
▶noun (narrows) a narrow channel connecting two larger areas of water: a basaltic fang rising from the narrows of the Upper Missouri. PHRASAL VERBS narrow something down reduce the number of possibilities or options of something: the company has narrowed down the candidates for the job to two.DERIVATIVES narrowish adjectiveORIGIN Old English nearu, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch naar ‘dismal, unpleasant’ and German Narbe ‘scar.’ Early senses in English included ‘constricted’ and ‘miserly.’
