native 
ˈnādiv

▶noun a person born in a specified place or associated with a place by birth, whether subsequently resident there or not: a native of Montreal 
an eighteen-year-old Brooklyn native. 
• a local inhabitant: New York in the summer was too hot even for the natives. 
• dated or offensive one of the original inhabitants of a country, especially a nonwhite as regarded by European colonists or travelers. 
• an animal or plant indigenous to a place: the marigold is a native of southern Europe. 
▶adjective
1 associated with the country, region, or circumstances of a person's birth: he's a native New Yorker 
her native country. 
• of the indigenous inhabitants of a place: a ceremonial native dance from Fiji.
2 (of a plant or animal) of indigenous origin or growth: these plants are native to North America 
America's native black bear.
3 (of a quality) belonging to a person's character from birth rather than acquired; innate: some last vestige of native wit prompted Guy to say nothing 
a jealousy and rage native to him. 
• Computing designed for or built into a given system, especially denoting the language associated with a given processor, computer, or compiler, and programs written in it.
4 (of a metal or other mineral) found in a pure or uncombined state. 
PHRASES
go native humorous or derogatory (of a person living away from their own country or region) abandon one's own culture, customs, or way of life and adopt those of the country or region one is living in.DERIVATIVES natively adverb. nativeness nounORIGIN late Middle English: from Latin nativus, from nat- ‘born,’ from the verb nasci . usage: In contexts such as a native of Boston or New York in the summer was too hot even for the natives, the noun native is quite acceptable. But when it is used to mean ‘a nonwhite original inhabitant of a country,’ as in this dance is a favorite with the natives, it is more problematic. This meaning has an old-fashioned feel and, because of its associations with a colonial European outlook, it may cause offense.
