nature 
ˈnāCHər

▶noun
1 the phenomena of the physical world collectively, including plants, animals, the landscape, and other features and products of the earth, as opposed to humans or human creations: the breathtaking beauty of nature. 
• the physical force regarded as causing and regulating these phenomena: it is impossible to change the laws of nature. See also Mother Nature.
2 [in singular] the basic or inherent features of something, especially when seen as characteristic of it: helping them to realize the nature of their problems 
there are a lot of other documents of that nature. 
• the innate or essential qualities or character of a person or animal: it's not in her nature to listen to advice 
I'm not violent by nature. See also human nature. 
• inborn or hereditary characteristics as an influence on or determinant of personality. Often contrasted with nurture. 
• [with adjective] archaic a person of a specified character: Emerson was so much more luminous a nature. 
PHRASES
against nature unnatural or immoral. someone's better nature the good side of a person's character; their capacity for tolerance, generosity, or sympathy: Charlotte planned to appeal to his better nature. call of nature used euphemistically to refer to a need to urinate or defecate. from nature (in art) using natural scenes or objects as models: I wanted to paint landscape directly from nature. get (or go) back to nature return to the type of life (regarded as being more in tune with nature) that existed before the development of complex industrial societies. in the nature of similar in type to or having the characteristics of: the promise was in the nature of a check that bounced. in the nature of things
1 inevitable: it is in the nature of things that the majority of music prizes get set up for performers rather than composers.
2 inevitably: in the nature of things, old people spend much more time indoors. in a state of nature
1 in an uncivilized or uncultivated state.
2 totally naked.
3 Christian Theology in a morally unregenerate condition, unredeemed by divine grace. the nature of the beast informal the inherent or essential quality or character of something, which cannot be changed.ORIGIN Middle English (denoting the physical power of a person): from Old French, from Latin natura ‘birth, nature, quality,’ from nat- ‘born,’ from the verb nasci .
