near 
ˈnir

▶adverb
1 at or to a short distance away; nearby: a bomb exploding somewhere near 
[comparative] : she took a step nearer.
2 a short time away in the future: the time for his retirement was drawing near.
3 [as submodifier] almost: a near perfect fit.
4 archaic or dialect almost: I near fell out of the chair. 
▶preposition (also near to)
1 at or to a short distance away from (a place): the parking lot near the sawmill 
do you live near here? 
[superlative] : the table nearest the door.
2 a short period of time from: near the end of the war 
[comparative] : details will be given nearer the date.
3 close to (a state); verging on: she gave a tiny smile, brave but near tears 
she was near death. 
• (used before an amount) a small amount below (something); approaching: temperatures near
2 million degrees 
K. 
4 similar to: a shape near to the original. 
▶adjective
1 located a short distance away: a big house in the near distance 
[superlative] : I was fifteen miles from the nearest town.
2 only a short time ahead: the conflict is unlikely to be resolved in the near future.
3 similar: [superlative] : walking in these shoes is the nearest thing to floating on air. 
• [attributive] close to being (the thing mentioned): his state of near despair 
a near disaster. 
• [attributive] having a close family connection: the loss of a child or other near relative.
4 [attributive] located on the side of a vehicle that is normally closest to the curb: the near right-hand end window of the trailer. Compare with off ( sense
3 of the adjective).
5 archaic (of a person) stingy; miserly. 
▶verb [with object] come near to (someone or something); approach: soon the cab would be nearing State Street 
[no object] : lunchtime neared. 
PHRASES
near at hand close in distance or time: an all-electric future was near at hand. near enough sufficiently close to being the case for all practical purposes: this price was near enough the going rate for rent. one's nearest and dearest one's close friends and relatives. so near and yet so far a rueful comment on someone's narrow failure to achieve an aim.DERIVATIVES nearish adjectiveORIGIN Middle English: from Old Norse nær ‘nearer,’ comparative of ná, corresponding to Old English nēah ‘nigh.’
