nod 
näd

▶verb (nods, nodding, nodded)
1 [no object] lower and raise one's head slightly and briefly, especially in greeting, assent, or understanding, or to give someone a signal: he nodded to Monica to unlock the door 
[with object] : she nodded her head in agreement. 
• [with object] signify or express (greeting, assent, or understanding) in this way: he nodded his consent. 
• draw or direct attention to someone or something by moving one's head: he nodded toward the corner of the room. 
• move one's head up and down repeatedly: he shut his eyes, nodding to the beat 
figurative : foxgloves nodding by the path.
2 [no object] have one's head fall forward when drowsy or asleep: Anna nodded over her book. 
▶noun an act of nodding the head: at a nod from his father, he left the room. 
• a gesture of acknowledgment or concession: a feel-good musical with a nod to pantomime. 
PHRASES
a nodding acquaintance a slight acquaintance with a person or cursory knowledge of a subject: students will need a nodding acquaintance with three other languages. even Homer nods proverb even the best person sometimes makes a mistake due to a momentary lack of alertness or attention. [with allusion to Latin dormitat Homerus (Horace Ars Poetica 359).] get the nod
1 be selected or approved.
2 receive a signal or information. give someone/something the nod
1 select or approve someone or something: they banned one book but gave the other the nod.
2 give someone a signal. on the nod informal
1 British by general agreement and without discussion: parliamentary approval of the treaty went through on the nod.
2 dated on credit.
3 alternating between wakefulness and sleepiness on account of heroin use.PHRASAL VERBS nod off informal fall asleep, especially briefly or unintentionally: some of the congregation nodded off during the sermon. nod out informal fall asleep, especially from the effects of a drug: they go to a coffee shop, get stoned, go to a club at 11, and nod out at midnight.ORIGIN late Middle English (as a verb): perhaps of Low German origin; compare with Middle High German notten ‘move around, shake.’ The noun dates from the mid 16th century.
