not 
nät

▶adverb
1 (also n't joined to a preceding verb) used with an auxiliary verb or “be” to form the negative: he would not say 
she isn't there 
didn't you tell me? 
• used in some constructions with other verbs: [with infinitive] : he has been warned not to touch 
the pain of not knowing 
she not only wrote the text but also researched the photographs.
2 used as a short substitute for a negative clause: maybe I'll regret it, but I hope not 
“Don't you keep in touch?” “I'm afraid not.” 
they wouldn't know if I was telling the truth or not.
3 used to express the negative of other words: not a single attempt was made 
treating the symptoms and not the cause 
“How was it?” “Not so bad.” 
• used with a quantifier to exclude a person or part of a group: not all the poems are serious. 
• less than (used to indicate a surprisingly small quantity): the brakes went on not ten feet from him.
4 used in understatements to suggest that the opposite of a following word or phrase is true: the not too distant future 
not a million miles away. 
• informal, humorous following and emphatically negating a statement: that sounds like quality entertainment—not. [late 19th century: a usage popularized by the film Wayne's World (1992).] 
▶noun (often NOT) Electronics a Boolean operator with only one variable that has the value one when the variable is zero and vice versa. 
• (also not gate) a circuit that produces an output signal only when there is not a signal on its input. 
▶adjective (often Not) Art (of paper) not hot-pressed, and having a slightly textured surface. 
PHRASES
not at all
1 used as a polite response to thanks.
2 definitely not: “You don't mind?” “Not at all.” not but what archaic nevertheless: not but what the picture has its darker side. not half see half. not least see least. not quite see quite. not that it is not to be inferred that: I'll never be allowed back—not that I'd want to go back. not a thing nothing at all. not very see very. ORIGIN Middle English: contraction of the adverb nought .
