note 
nōt

▶noun
1 a brief record of facts, topics, or thoughts, written down as an aid to memory: I'll make a note in my diary 
Robyn arranged her notes on the lectern. 
• a short comment on or explanation of a word or passage in a book or article; an annotation: see note iv above.
2 a short informal letter or written message: I left her a note explaining where I was going. 
• an official letter sent from the representative of one government to another. 
• [usually with modifier] a short official document that certifies a particular thing: you need a sick note from your doctor.
3 British a banknote: a ten-pound note.
4 a single tone of definite pitch made by a musical instrument or the human voice: the last notes of the symphony died away. 
• a written sign representing the pitch and duration of musical note. 
• a key of a piano or similar instrument: black notes 
white notes. 
• a bird's song or call, or a single tone in this: the tawny owl has a harsh flight note.
5 [in singular] a particular quality or tone that reflects or expresses a mood or attitude: there was a note of scorn in her voice 
the decade could have ended on an optimistic note. 
• any of the basic components of fragrance or flavor: the fresh note of bergamot. 
▶verb [with object]
1 notice or pay particular attention to (something): noting his mother's unusual gaiety 
[with clause] : please note that you will not receive a reminder that final payment is due. 
• remark upon (something), typically in order to draw someone's attention to it: we noted earlier the difficulties inherent in this strategy.
2 record (something) in writing: he noted down her address on a piece of paper. 
PHRASES
hit (or strike) the right (or wrong) note say or do something in a way that is very suitable (or unsuitable) for a particular audience or occasion. of note
1 worth paying attention to: many of his comments are worthy of note.
2 important; distinguished: Roman historians of note include Livy, Tacitus, and Sallust. strike a false note appear insincere or inappropriate: she greeted him gushingly, and that struck a false note. strike (or sound) a note of express (a particular feeling or view) about something: he sounded a note of caution about the trend toward health foods. take note pay attention: investors should take note of the company’s resilience.ORIGIN Middle English ( sense
4 of the noun and sense
1 of the verb): from Old French note (noun), noter (verb), from Latin nota ‘a mark,’ notare ‘to mark.’
