nothing 
ˈnəTHiNG

▶pronoun not anything; no single thing: I said nothing 
there's nothing you can do 
they found nothing wrong. 
• something of no importance or concern: “What are you laughing at?” “Oh, nothing, sir.” 
they are nothing to him 
[as noun] : no longer could we be treated as nothings. 
• (in calculations) no amount; zero. 
▶adjective [attributive] informal having no prospect of progress; of no value: he had a series of nothing jobs. 
▶adverb not at all: she cares nothing for others 
he looks nothing like the others. 
• [postpositive] North American informal used to contradict something emphatically: “This is a surprise.” “Surprise nothing.” 
PHRASES
be nothing to do with see do1. for nothing
1 at no cost; without payment: working for nothing.
2 to no purpose: he died anyway; so it had all been for nothing. have nothing on someone see have. have nothing to do with see do1. no nothing informal (concluding a list of negatives) nothing at all: how could you solve it with no clues, no witnesses, no nothing? not for nothing for a very good reason: not for nothing have I got a brother-in-law who cooks professionally. nothing but only: nothing but the best will do. nothing daunted see daunt. nothing doing informal
1 there is no prospect of success or agreement: He wants to marry her. Nothing doing!
2 nothing is happening: there's nothing doing, and I've been waiting for weeks. nothing (or nothing else) for it British no alternative: there was nothing for it but to follow. nothing less than used to emphasize how extreme something is: it was nothing less than sexual harassment. nothing loath quite willing. nothing much not a great amount; nothing of importance. there is nothing to it there is no difficulty involved. stop at nothing see stop. sweet nothings 
ˌswēt ˈnəTHiNGz 
words of affection exchanged by lovers: whispering sweet nothings in her ear. think nothing of it do not apologize or feel bound to show gratitude (used as a polite response). you ain't seen nothing yet informal used to indicate that although something may be considered extreme or impressive, there is something even more extreme or impressive in store: if you think that was muddy, you ain't seen nothing yet.ORIGIN Old English nān thing (see no, thing) .
