now 
nou

▶adverb
1 at the present time or moment: where are you living now? 
it's the most popular style of jazz right now 
not now, I'm late 
[after preposition] : they should be back by now. 
• at the time directly following the present moment; immediately: if we leave now, we can be home by ten 
I'd rather do it now than leave it till later. 
• under the present circumstances; as a result of something that has recently happened: it is now clear that we should not pursue this policy 
I didn't receive the letter, but it hardly matters now. 
• on this further occasion, typically as the latest in a series of annoying situations or events: what do you want now? 
• used to emphasize a particular length of time: they've been married four years now. 
• (in a narrative or account of past events) at the time spoken of or referred to: it had happened three times now 
she was nineteen now, and she was alone.
2 used, especially in conversation, to draw attention to a particular statement or point in a narrative: now, my first impulse was to run away 
I don't like Scotch. Now, if it had been Irish Whiskey you'd offered me.
3 used in or as a request, instruction, or question, typically to give a slight emphasis to one's words: now, if you'll excuse me? 
we can hardly send her back, now can we? 
run along now. 
• used when pausing or considering one's next words: let me see now; oh yes, I remember.
4 used at the end of an ironic question echoing a previous statement: “Mom says for you to give me some of your stamps.” “Does she now?” 
▶conjunction as a consequence of the fact: they spent a lot of time together now that he had retired 
now that you mention it, I haven't seen her around for ages. 
▶adjective informal fashionable; up to date: seventies disco dancing—very now. 
PHRASES
for now until a later time: that's all the news there is for now. now and again (or then) from time to time.now now used as an expression of mild remonstrance: now now, that's not the way to behave. now ——, now —— at one moment ——, at the next ——: a wind whipped about the house, now this way, now that. now or never used to convey urgency: it was now or never—I had to move fast. now then
1 used to get someone's attention or to invite a response: now then, who's for a coffee?
2 used as an expression of mild remonstrance or warning: now then, Emily, I think Sarah has suffered enough. now you're talking used to express one's enthusiastic agreement with or approval of a statement or suggestion: The Beatles! Now you're talking.DERIVATIVES nowness nounORIGIN Old English nū, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch nu,German nun, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin nunc and Greek nun .
