of 
əv

▶preposition
1 expressing the relationship between a part and a whole: the sleeve of his coat 
in the back of the car 
the days of the week 
a series of programs 
a piece of cake 
a lot of money.
2 expressing the relationship between a scale or measure and a value: an increase of
5 percent 
a height of
10 feet. 
• expressing an age: a boy of fifteen.
3 indicating an association between two entities, typically one of belonging: the son of a friend 
the government of India 
a photograph of the bride 
[with a possessive] : a former colleague of John's. 
• expressing the relationship between an author, artist, or composer and their works collectively: the plays of Shakespeare 
the paintings of Rembrandt.
4 expressing the relationship between a direction and a point of reference: north of Chicago 
on the left of the picture.
5 expressing the relationship between a general category and the thing being specified which belongs to such a category: the city of Prague 
the idea of a just society 
the set of all genes. 
• governed by a noun expressing the fact that a category is vague: this type of book 
the general kind of answer that would satisfy me.
6 indicating the relationship between a verb and an indirect object. 
• with a verb expressing a mental state: they must be persuaded of the severity of the problem 
I don't know of anything that would be suitable. 
• expressing a cause: he died of cancer.
7 indicating the material or substance constituting something: the house was built of bricks 
walls of stone.
8 North American expressing time in relation to the following hour: it would be just a quarter of three in New York. 
PHRASES
be of possess intrinsically; give rise to: this work is of great interest and value. of all denoting the least likely or expected example: Jordan, of all people, committed a flagrant foul. of all the nerve (or British cheek) an expression of indignation.of an evening (or morning, etc.) informal
1 on most evenings (or mornings, etc.).
2 at some time in the evenings (or mornings, etc.).ORIGIN Old English, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch af and German ab, from an Indo-European root shared by Latin ab and Greek apo . usage: It is a mistake to use of instead of have in constructions such as you should have asked (not you should of asked). For more information, see usage at have .
