off 
ôf äf

▶adverb
1 away from the place in question; to or at a distance: the man ran off 
she dashed off to her room 
we must be off now. 
• away from the main route: turning off for Ripon.
2 so as to be removed or separated: he whipped off his coat 
a section of the runway had been cordoned off. 
• absent; away from work: take a day off 
he is off on sick leave.
3 starting a journey or race; leaving: the gunmen made off on foot 
they're off!
4 so as to bring to an end or be discontinued: the Christmas party rounded off a hugely successful year 
she broke off her reading to look at her husband. 
• canceled: tell them the wedding's off. 
• British informal (of a menu item) temporarily unavailable: strawberries are off.
5 (of an electrical appliance or power supply) not functioning or so as to cease to function: switch the TV off 
the electricity was off for four days.
6 chiefly British having access to or possession of material goods or wealth to the extent specified: we'd been rather badly off for books 
how are you off for money? 
▶preposition
1 moving away and often down from: he rolled off the bed 
the coat slipped off his arms 
trying to get us off the stage.
2 situated or leading in a direction away from (a main route or intersection): single wires leading off the main lines 
a backstreet off Olympic Boulevard. 
• out at sea from (a place on the coast): anchoring off Blue Bay 
six miles off Dunkirk.
3 so as to be removed or separated from: threatening to tear it off its hinges 
they are knocking $2,000 off the price 
figurative : it's a huge burden off my shoulders. 
• absent from: I took a couple of days off work. 
• informal abstaining from: he managed to stay off alcohol. 
▶adjective
1 [attributive] characterized by someone performing or feeling worse than usual; unsatisfactory or inadequate: even the greatest athletes have off days.
2 [predicative] (of food) no longer fresh: the fish was a bit off.
3 [attributive] located on the side of a vehicle that is normally furthest from the curb; offside. Compare with near ( sense
4 of the adjective).
4 [predicative] British informal annoying or unfair: His boss deducted the money from his pay. That was a bit off.
5 [predicative] British informal unwell: I felt decidedly off. 
▶noun (also off side) Cricket the half of the field (as divided lengthways through the pitch) toward which the batsman's feet are pointed when standing to receive the ball. The opposite of leg. 
▶verb [with object] informal North American kill; murder: she might off a cop, but she wouldn't shoot her boyfriend. 
PHRASES
off and on intermittently; now and then.ORIGIN Old English, originally a variant of of (which combined the senses of ‘of’ and ‘off’). usage: Off of is often used in place of the preposition off in contexts such as she picked it up off of the floor (compared with she picked it up off the floor). Although off of is recorded from the 16th century (it was used by Shakespeare) and is logically parallel to the standard out of, it is regarded as incorrect in standard modern English.
