only 
ˈōnlē

▶adverb
1 and no one or nothing more besides; solely or exclusively: there are only a limited number of tickets available 
only their faith sustained them. 
• no more than (implying that more was hoped for or expected); merely: deaths from heart disease have only declined by
10 percent 
she was still only in her mid-thirties. 
• no longer ago than: genes that were discovered only last year. 
• not until: a final report reached him only on January 15.
2 [with infinitive] with the negative or unfortunate result that: she turned into the parking car, only to find her way blocked. 
• [with modal] inevitably, although unfortunate or undesirable: if banks canceled the debts, these countries would only borrow more 
rebellion will only bring more unhappiness. 
▶adjective [attributive] alone of its or their kind; single or solitary: the only medal we had ever won 
he was an only child. 
• alone deserving consideration: it's simply the only place to be seen these days. 
▶conjunction informal except that; but for the fact that: he is still a young man, only he seems older because of his careworn expression. 
PHRASES
only just by a very small margin; almost not: the building survived the earthquake, but only just. 
• very recently: I'd only just arrived back from Paris. only too —— used to emphasize that something is the case to an extreme or regrettable extent: you should be only too glad to be rid of him 
they found that the rumor was only too true.ORIGIN Old English ānlic (adjective) (see one, -ly1) . usage: In normal, everyday English, the tendency is to place only as early as possible in the sentence, generally just before the verb, and the result is rarely ambiguous. Misunderstandings are possible, however, and grammarians have debated the matter for more than two hundred years. Advice varies, but in general, ambiguity is less likely if only is placed as close as is naturally possible to the word(s) to be modified or emphasized. I saw her only once stresses the single instance; I only saw her once leaves it unclear whether she was heard (or otherwise perceived) in addition to being seen.
