out 
out

▶adverb
1 moving or appearing to move away from a particular place, especially one that is enclosed or hidden: he walked out into the street 
watch the stars come out. 
• situated or operating in the open air, not in buildings: the search-and-rescue team have been out looking for you. 
• no longer detained in custody or in jail: they would be out on bail in no time.
2 situated far or at a particular distance from somewhere: an old farmhouse right out in the middle of nowhere 
they lived eight miles out of town 
the team had put on a marvelous display out in Georgia. 
• to sea, away from the land: the fleet put out from Cyprus. 
• (of the tide) falling or at its lowest level: the tide was going out.
3 away from home: he's gone out. 
• in a public place for purposes of pleasure or entertainment: an evening out at a restaurant.
4 indicating a specified distance away from the goal line or finishing line: he scored from 70 meters out.
5 so as to be revealed or known: find out what you can. 
• aloud; so as to be heard: Miss Beard cried out in horror.
6 at or to an end: the romance fizzled out. 
• so as to be finished or complete: I'll leave them to fight it out 
I typed out the poem. 
• (in various other completive uses): the crowd had thinned out 
he crossed out a word.
7 (of a light or fire) so as to be extinguished or no longer burning: at ten o'clock the lights went out. 
• (of a stain or mark) no longer visible; removed: try to get the stain out.
8 (of a party, politician, etc.) not in office.
9 (of a jury) considering its verdict in secrecy. 
▶preposition through to the outside: he ran out the door. 
▶adjective [predicative]
1 not at home or at one's place of work: if he called, she'd pretend to be out.
2 revealed or made public: the secret was soon out. 
• (of a flower) in bloom; open. 
• published: the book should be out before the end of the month. 
• informal in existence or in use: it works as well as any system that's out. 
• not concealing one's homosexuality: I had been out since I was seventeen.
3 no longer alight; extinguished: the fire was nearly out.
4 at an end: school was out for the summer. 
• informal no longer in fashion: life in the fast lane is out.
5 not possible or worth considering: a trip to the seaside is out.
6 in a state of unconsciousness. 
• Boxing unable to rise before the count of ten.
7 mistaken; in error: he was slightly out in his calculations.
8 (of the ball in tennis and similar games) outside the designated playing area.
9 Baseball & Cricket no longer batting or on base, having had one's turn ended by the team in the field: the Yankees are out in the ninth 
Johnson was out at second. 
▶noun
1 informal a way of escaping from a problem or dilemma: he was desperately looking for an out.
2 Baseball an act of putting a player out.
3 (the outs) the political party or politicians not in office. 
▶verb
1 [no object] come or go out; emerge: the truth will out.
2 [with object] informal reveal the homosexuality of (a prominent person). 
PHRASES
on the outs in disagreement or dispute: on the outs with established political trends.out and about (of a person, especially after inactivity) engaging in normal activity. out for intent on having: he was out for a good time. out of 
ˈout əv 

1 indicating the source or derivation of something; from: a bench fashioned out of a fallen tree trunk 
you should not expect too much out of life. 
• having (the thing mentioned) as a motivation: she did it out of spite. 
• indicating the dam of a pedigree animal, especially a horse.
2 from among (a number): nine times out of ten.
3 not having (a particular thing): they had run out of cash. out of it informal
1 not included; rejected: I hate feeling out of it.
2 unaware of what is happening as a result of being uninformed. 
• unable to think or react properly as a result of being drowsy. out to keenly striving to: they were out to impress. out with an exhortation to expel or dismiss (an unwanted person or thing). out with it say what you are thinking.ORIGIN Old English ūt (adverb), ūtian (verb), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch uit and German aus . usage: The use of out as a preposition (rather than the standard prepositional phrase out of), as in he threw it out the window, is common in informal contexts, and is standard in American, Australian, and New Zealand English. Traditionalists do not accept it as part of standard British English, however.
