part 
▶noun
1 the last part of the cake 
a large part of their life: bit, slice, chunk, lump, hunk, wedge, fragment, scrap, piece; portion, proportion, percentage, fraction. ANTONYMS whole.
2 car parts: component, bit, constituent, element, module.
3 body parts: part of the body, organ, limb, member.
4 the third part of the book: section, division, volume, chapter, act, scene, installment.
5 another part of the country: district, neighborhood, quarter, section, area, region.
6 the part of Juliet: (theatrical) role, character, persona.
7 she's learning her part: lines, words, script, speech; libretto, lyrics, score.
8 he was jailed for his part in the affair: involvement, role, function, hand, work, responsibility, capacity, position, participation, contribution; informal bit.
▶verb
1 the curtains parted: separate, divide (in two), split (in two), move apart. ANTONYMS join.
2 we parted on bad terms: leave, take one's leave, say goodbye/farewell, say one's goodbyes/farewells, go one's (separate) ways, split, go away, depart. ANTONYMS meet.
▶adjective a part payment: incomplete, partial, half, semi-, limited, inadequate, insufficient, unfinished. ANTONYMS complete.
▶adverb it is part finished: to a certain extent/degree, to some extent/degree, partly, partially, in part, half, relatively, comparatively, (up) to a point, somewhat; not totally, not entirely, (very) nearly, almost, just about, all but. ANTONYMS completely.
PHRASES
for the most part See mostly. in part the water damage is due in part to the clogged gutters: to a certain extent/degree, to some extent/degree, partly, partially, slightly, in some measure, (up) to a point. on the part of there is increased interest in these coins on the part of collectors: (made/done) by, carried out by, caused by, from. part with Danielle could not part with her stuffed animals: give up/away, relinquish, forgo, surrender, hand over, deliver up, dispose of. take part anyone who cares to can take part: participate, join in, get involved, enter, play a part/role, be a participant, contribute, have a hand, help, assist, lend a hand; informal get in on the act. take part in all students must take part in this course before the end of junior year: participate in, engage in, join in, get involved in, share in, play a part/role in, be a participant in, contribute to, be associated with, have a hand in. CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD See fragment .These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
