pig 
piɡ

▶noun
1 an omnivorous domesticated hoofed mammal with sparse bristly hair and a flat snout for rooting in the soil, kept for its meat. Chester white pig [Sus domesticus (with numerous varieties), family Suidae (the pig family), descended from the wild boar and domesticated over 8,000 years ago. The pig family also includes the warthog and babirusa, but the similar peccaries are placed in their own family.] 
• a wild animal of the pig family. 
• North American a young pig; a piglet. 
• the flesh of a pig, especially a young one, as food. 
• informal, derogatory a greedy, dirty, or unpleasant person: how can she stay married to such a pig? 
• informal, derogatory a police officer.
2 an oblong mass of iron or lead from a smelting furnace. See also pig iron. 
• a device that fits snugly inside an oil or gas pipeline and is sent through it to clean or test the inside, or to act as a barrier. 
▶verb (pigs, pigging, pigged) [no object]
1 informal gorge oneself with food: don't pig out on chips before dinner.
2 informal crowd together with other people in disorderly or dirty conditions: he and Irving pigged it for years in a shoebox of an apartment 
I have no intention of pigging with that bunch for another day.
3 (of a sow) give birth to piglets; farrow.
4 operate a pig within an oil or gas pipeline. 
PHRASES
bleed like a pig bleed copiously. in pig (of a sow) pregnant. in a pig's eye informal, chiefly North American expressing scornful disbelief at a statement. make a pig of oneself informal overeat; eat more than one's share. make a pig's ear of British informal handle ineptly. a pig in a poke something that is bought or accepted without knowing its value or seeing it first. [with reference to the formerly common trick of selling a cat concealed in a bag to someone who was expecting a pig.] put lipstick on a pig informal make superficial changes to something regarded with dislike or disfavor in a fruitless attempt to make it more appealing: any attempt to revise the bill would amount to putting lipstick on a pig. squeal like a pig squeal or yell loudly and shrilly. sweat like a pig informal sweat profusely.DERIVATIVES piglike 
ˈpigˌlīk 
adjective. pigling 
ˈpigliNG 
nounORIGIN Middle English: probably from an Old English word represented in picbrēd ‘acorn,’ literally ‘pig food.’
