play 
▶verb
1 Aidan and Robert were playing with their toys: amuse oneself, entertain oneself, enjoy oneself, have fun; relax, occupy oneself, divert oneself; frolic, frisk, romp, caper; informal mess around.
2 I used to play hockey: take part in, participate in, be involved in, compete in, do.
3 St. Joseph's plays Boston on Sunday: compete against, take on, challenge, vie with, face, go up against.
4 he was to play Macbeth: act (the part of), take the role of, appear as, portray, depict, impersonate, represent, render, perform, enact; formal personate.
5 get your guitar and let's play: perform, make music, jam.
6 Bryanna played a note on the flute: make, produce, reproduce; blow, toot; plunk, bang out; sound.
7 the sunlight played on the water: dance, flit, ripple, touch; sparkle, glint.
▶noun
1 a balance between work and play: amusement, entertainment, relaxation, recreation, diversion, distraction, leisure; enjoyment, pleasure, fun, games, fun and games; horseplay, merrymaking, revelry; informal living it up.
2 a Shakespearean play: drama, theatrical work; screenplay, comedy, tragedy; production, performance, show, sketch.
3 a new tool came into play: action, activity, operation, working, function; interaction, interplay.
4 there is foul play afoot: behavior, goings-on, activity, action, deed.
5 there was a little play in the rope: movement, slack, give; room to maneuver, scope, latitude.
PHRASES
play around informal he's been playing around for years: womanize, philander, have affairs, flirt; informal carry on, mess around, play the field, sleep around, fool around. play at being she just plays at being the caring one: pretend to be, pass oneself off as, masquerade as, profess to be, pose as, impersonate; fake, feign, simulate, affect; informal make like. play ball informal if you play ball, I can help you: co-operate, collaborate, play the game, help, lend a hand, assist, contribute; informal pitch in. play down officials tried to play down the extent of the damage: make light of, make little of, gloss over, de-emphasize, downplay, understate; soft-pedal, tone down, diminish, trivialize, underrate, underestimate, undervalue; disparage, belittle, scoff at, sneer at, shrug off; informal pooh-pooh. play for time all his opponents accused him of playing for time in order to pull an election-year coup: stall, temporize, delay, hold back, hang fire, procrastinate, drag one's feet. play it by ear when a guest doesn't show up for live radio, you learn quickly how to play it by ear: improvise, extemporize, ad lib; informal wing it. play on they play on our fears: exploit, take advantage of, use, turn to (one's) account, profit by, capitalize on, trade on, milk, abuse. play the fool by the time she was ten, Ronnie knew it was her God-given job to play the fool: clown around, fool around, mess around, monkey around, joke; informal horse around. play the game you find out early on who's willing to play the game, and that's the kind of person this company holds on to: play fair, be fair, play by the rules, conform, be a good sport, toe the line. play up his agents really play up the story of his rise from poverty: emphasize, accentuate, call attention to, point up, underline, highlight, spotlight, foreground, feature, stress, accent. play up to wannabes who play up to the boss: ingratiate oneself with, curry favor with, court, fawn over, make up to, toady to, crawl to, pander to, flatter; informal soft-soap, suck up to, butter up, lick someone's boots.
