point
1 
▶noun
1 the point of a needle: tip, (sharp) end, extremity; prong, spike, tine, nib, barb.
2 points of light: pinpoint, dot, spot, speck, fleck.
3 a meeting point: place, position, location, site, spot, area.
4 this point in her life: time, stage, juncture, period, phase.
5 the tension had reached such a high point: level, degree, stage, pitch, extent.
6 an important point: detail, item, fact, thing, argument, consideration, factor, element; subject, issue, topic, question, matter.
7 get to the point: heart of the matter, most important part, essence, nub, keynote, core, pith, crux; meaning, significance, gist, substance, thrust, bottom line, burden, relevance; informal brass tacks, nitty-gritty.
8 what's the point of this? purpose, aim, object, objective, goal, intention; use, sense, value, advantage.
9 he had his good points: attribute, characteristic, feature, trait, quality, property, aspect, side.
▶verb
1 she pointed the gun at him: aim, direct, level, train.
2 the evidence pointed to his guilt: indicate, suggest, evidence, signal, signify, denote, bespeak, reveal, manifest.
PHRASES
beside the point those accusations are beside the point: irrelevant, immaterial, unimportant, neither here nor there, inconsequential, incidental, out of place, unconnected, peripheral, tangential, extraneous; off-topic. in point of fact in point of fact, all three of these gentlemen have immaculate service records: in fact, as a matter of fact, actually, in actual fact, really, in reality, as it happens, in truth. make a point of she made a point of letting us know she was recently divorced: make an effort to, go out of one's way to, put emphasis on. on the point of we were on the point of quitting, but something kept us going: (just) about to (be), on the verge of, on the brink of, going to (be), all set to (be). point of view we have different points of view: opinion, view, belief, attitude, feeling, sentiment, thoughts; position, perspective, viewpoint, standpoint, outlook. point out the flaws in the plan have already been pointed out: identify, show, designate, draw attention to, indicate, specify, detail, mention. point up it's as if he deliberately points up every negative aspect of our work: emphasize, highlight, draw attention to, accentuate, underline, spotlight, foreground, put emphasis on, stress, play up, accent, bring to the fore. to the point his observations were concise and to the point: relevant, pertinent, apposite, germane, applicable, apropos, appropriate, apt, fitting, suitable, material; formal ad rem. up to a point I agree with you, but only up to a point: partly, to some extent, to a certain degree, in part, somewhat, partially.
