pop
1 
päp

▶verb (pops, popping, popped)
1 [no object] make a light explosive sound: corks popped, glasses tinkled, and delicate canapés were served. 
• [with object] cause (something) to burst, making a pop: they were popping balloons with darts. 
• (of a person's ears) make a small popping sound within the head as pressure is equalized, typically because of a change of altitude. 
• [with object] heat (popcorn or another foodstuff) until it bursts open. 
• (of a person's eyes) bulge or appear to bulge when opened wide, especially as an indication of surprise.
2 [no object] go somewhere, typically for a short time and often without notice: she popped in to see if she could help. 
• [with object] put or move (something) somewhere quickly: he popped his head around the door.
3 [no object] Baseball (of a batter) hit a pop fly. 
• [with object] (of a pitcher) cause (a batter) to pop up.
4 [no object] appear brighter or more striking in juxtaposition with something of a different or complementary color: she added a slick of red lipstick to make the outfit pop 
gray creates a calm, neutral backdrop that lets other colors pop.
5 [with object] informal take or inject (a drug): people who obsessively drink and pop pills.
6 [with object] British informal pawn (something). 
▶noun
1 a light explosive sound: at first there were just a few pops, perhaps from pistols.
2 a patch of bright color: I like wearing a neutral outfit with one pop of yellow.
3 informal a carbonated soft drink.
4 (also pop fly or pop-up) Baseball a ball hit high in the air but not deep, providing an easy catch.
5 an attempt: he grabs with a paw and hooks about two hundred berries at a pop. 
▶adverb with a light explosive sound: the champagne went pop. 
PHRASES
—— a pop North American informal costing a specified amount per item: those swimsuits she wears are $50 a pop. have (or take) a pop at informal, chiefly British attack physically or verbally. make someone's eyes pop (out) informal cause great astonishment to someone.pop the question informal propose marriage.PHRASAL VERBS pop for informal pay for (something), especially as a treat for someone else: I popped for the first three tolls. pop off informal
1 die.
2 speak spontaneously and at length, typically angrily: I've been thinking about it a lot—I don't want you to imagine I'm just popping off. pop out make an out in a baseball game by hitting a pop fly that is caught. pop up
1 appear or occur suddenly and unexpectedly: these memories can pop up from time to time. 
• Computing (of a browser window) appear without having been requested, especially for the purpose of advertising.
2 hit a baseball high into the air but not deep, providing an easy catch: in three at bats, he struck out twice and popped up.ORIGIN late Middle English (in the senses ‘a blow, knock’ and ‘to strike’): imitative.
