pride 
▶noun
1 their triumphs were a source of pride: self-esteem, dignity, honor, self-respect, self-worth, self-regard, pride in oneself. ANTONYMS shame.
2 take pride in a good job well done: pleasure, joy, delight, gratification, fulfillment, satisfaction, a sense of achievement.
3 he refused her offer out of pride: arrogance, vanity, self-importance, hubris, conceit, conceitedness, self-love, self-adulation, self-admiration, narcissism, egotism, superciliousness, haughtiness, snobbery, snobbishness; informal big-headedness; literary vainglory. ANTONYMS modesty, humility.
4 the bull is the pride of the herd: best, finest, top, cream, pick, choice, prize, glory, jewel in the crown. ANTONYMS dregs.
5 the rose-covered trellis was the pride of the gardener: source of satisfaction, pride and joy, treasured possession, joy, delight.
PHRASES
pride oneself on Lucas prides himself on his knowledge of wine: be proud of, be proud of oneself for, take pride in, take satisfaction in, congratulate oneself on, pat oneself on the back for. CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD pride, arrogance, conceit, egotism, self-esteem, vainglory, vanity If you take pride in yourself or your accomplishments, it means that you believe in your own worth, merit, or superiority—whether or not that belief is justified (she took pride in her work). When your opinion of yourself is exaggerated, you're showing conceit, a word that combines pride with self-obsession. If you like to be noticed and admired for your appearance or achievements, you're revealing your vanity, and if you show off or boast about your accomplishments, you're likely to be accused of vainglory, a somewhat literary term for a self-important display of power, skill, or influence. Arrogance is an overbearing pride combined with disdain for others (his arrogance led him to assume that everyone else would obey his orders), while egotism implies self-centeredness or an excessive preoccupation with yourself (blinded by egotism to the suffering of others). While no one wants to be accused of arrogance or egotism, there's a lot to be said for self-esteem, which may suggest undue pride but is more often used to describe a healthy belief in oneself and respect for one's worth as a person (she suffered from low self-esteem).These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
