question 
ˈkwesCH(ə)n

▶noun a sentence worded or expressed so as to elicit information: we hope this leaflet has been helpful in answering your questions. 
• a doubt about the truth or validity of something: there is no question that America faces the threat of Balkanization. 
• the raising of a doubt about or objection to something: Edward was the only one she obeyed without question 
her loyalty is really beyond question. 
• a matter forming the basis of a problem requiring resolution: we have kept an eye on the question of political authority. 
• a matter or concern depending on or involving a specified condition or thing: it was not simply a question of age and hierarchy. 
▶verb [with object] ask questions of (someone), especially in an official context: four men were being questioned about the killings 
(as noun questioning) : the young lieutenant escorted us to the barracks for questioning. 
• feel or express doubt about; raise objections to: members had questioned the cost of the scheme. 
PHRASES
be (just or only) a question of time be certain to happen sooner or later. bring something into question raise an issue for further consideration or discussion: technology had brought into question the whole future of work. come into question become an issue for further consideration or discussion: our Sunday trading laws have come into question. in question
1 being considered or discussed: on the day in question, there were several serious emergencies.
2 in doubt: all of the old certainties are in question. no question of no possibility of. out of the question too impracticable or unlikely to merit discussion. question of fact Law an issue to be decided by a jury. question of law Law an issue to be decided by a judge. put the question (in a formal debate or meeting) require supporters and opponents of a proposal to record their votes.DERIVATIVES questioningly 
ˈkwesCH(ə)niNGlē 
adverbORIGIN late Middle English: from Old French question (noun), questionner (verb), from Latin quaestio(n-), from quaerere ‘ask, seek.’
