quote 
kwōt

▶verb [with object]
1 repeat or copy out (a group of words from a text or speech), typically with an indication that one is not the original author or speaker: he quoted a passage from the Psalms 
[with direct speech] : “The stream mysterious glides beneath,” Melinda quoted 
[no object] : when we told her this she said, and I quote, “Phooey!” 
• repeat a passage from (a work or author) or statement by (someone): the prime minister was quoted as saying that he would resist all attempts to “sabotage” his government 
he quoted Shakespeare, Goethe, and other poets. 
• mention or refer to (someone or something) to provide evidence or authority for a statement, argument, or opinion: they won't be here at all in three years time—you can quote me on that. 
• (quote someone/something as) put forward or describe someone or something as being: heavy teaching loads are often quoted as a bad influence on research.
2 give someone (the estimated price of a job or service): [with two objects] : the agent quoted a fare of $180. 
• Stock Market give (a company) a quotation or listing on a stock exchange: an organization that is quoted on the Stock Exchange. 
▶noun
1 a quotation from a text or speech: a quote from Wordsworth.
2 a quotation giving the estimated cost for a particular job or service: quotes from different insurance companies. 
• Stock Market a price offered by a broker for the sale or purchase of a stock or other security. 
• Stock Market a quotation or listing of a company on a stock exchange.
3 (quotes) quotation marks: use double quotes around precise phrases you wish to search for. 
PHRASES
quote —— unquote (also quote, unquote) informal used parenthetically when speaking to suggest quotation marks, to indicate the beginning and end of a statement or passage that one is reciting or repeating: the brochure describes the view as, quote, unquote, unforgettably breathtaking 
the second sentence says, quote, There has never been a better time to invest in the commodities market, unquote.ORIGIN late Middle English: from medieval Latin quotare, from quot ‘how many,’ or from medieval Latin quota (see quota). The original sense was ‘mark a book with numbers, or with marginal references,’ later ‘give a reference by page or chapter,’ hence ‘cite a text or person’ (late 16th century).
