rack
1 
rak

▶noun
1 a framework, typically with rails, bars, hooks, or pegs, for holding or storing things: a spice rack 
a magazine rack. 
• a stack of digital effects units for a guitar or other instrument. 
• a vertically barred frame or wagon for holding animal fodder: a hay rack.
2 a cogged or toothed bar or rail engaging with a wheel or pinion, or using pegs to adjust the position of something: a steering rack.
3 (the rack) historical an instrument of torture consisting of a frame on which the victim was stretched by turning rollers to which the wrists and ankles were tied.
4 a triangular structure for positioning the balls in pool. Compare with frame ( sense
5 of the noun). 
• British a single game of snooker.
5 North American informal a woman's breasts: Arnie's woman is kinda bossy, but she's got a nice rack.
6 North American a set of antlers.
7 North American informal a bed. 
▶verb [with object]
1 (also wrack) cause extreme physical or mental pain to; subject to extreme stress: he was racked with guilt. 
• historical torture (someone) on the rack.
2 place in or on a rack: the shoes were racked neatly beneath the dresses.
3 chiefly archaic raise (rent) above a fair or normal amount. 
PHRASES
go to rack (or wrack) and ruin gradually deteriorate in condition because of neglect: fall into disrepair. [rack from Old English wræc ‘vengeance’; related to wreak .] off the rack North American (of clothes) ready-made rather than made to order. on the rack suffering intense distress or strain. rack (or wrack) one's brains (or brain) make a great effort to think of or remember something.PHRASAL VERBS rack something up accumulate or achieve something, typically a score or amount: Japan is racking up record trade surpluses with the 
U. 
S. ORIGIN Middle English: from Middle Dutch rec,Middle Low German rek ‘horizontal bar or shelf,’ probably from recken ‘to stretch, reach’ (possibly the source of sense
1 of the verb). usage: The relationship between the forms rack and wrack is complicated. The most common noun sense of rack, ‘a framework for holding and storing things,’ is always spelled rack, never wrack. In the phrase rack something up, the word is also always spelled rack. Figurative senses of the verb, deriving from the type of torture in which someone is stretched on a rack, can, however, be spelled either rack or wrack: thus, racked with guilt or wracked with guilt; rack your brains or wrack your brains. In addition, the phrase rack and ruin can also be spelled wrack and ruin.
