ready 
ˈredē

▶adjective (readier, readiest)
1 [predicative] in a suitable state for an activity, action, or situation; fully prepared: are you ready, Carrie? 
I began to get ready for bed 
[with infinitive] : she was about ready to leave. 
• (of a thing) made suitable and available for immediate use: dinner's ready! 
could you have the list ready by this afternoon? 
• (ready with) keen or quick to give: I'm always ready with a wisecrack. 
• (ready for) in need of or having a desire for: I expect you're ready for a drink 
she always looks ready for a fight. 
• [with infinitive] eager, inclined, or willing to do something: she is ready to die for her political convictions. 
• [with infinitive] in such a condition as to be likely to do something: by the time he arrived he was ready to drop.
2 easily available or obtained; within reach: there was a ready supply of drink 
the murderer knew that the mallet would be ready to hand. 
• [attributive] immediate, quick, or prompt: those who have ready access to the arts 
a girl with a ready smile. 
▶noun (plural readies) (readies or the ready) British informal available money; cash. 
▶verb (readies, readying, readied) [with object] prepare (someone or something) for an activity or purpose: the spare transformer was readied for shipment 
[with object and infinitive] : she had readied herself to speak first. 
PHRASES
at the ready prepared or available for immediate use: the men walk with their guns at the ready. make ready prepare: they were told to make ready for the journey home. ready and waiting used to emphasize that someone or something is fully prepared or immediately available: the apartment was all ready and waiting for them. ready, set, go used to announce the beginning of a race.ready to roll informal (of a person, vehicle, or thing) fully prepared to start functioning or moving: the next morning, the plan was ready to roll.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old English rǣde (from a Germanic base meaning ‘arrange, prepare’; related to Dutch gereed) + -y1 .
