real
1 
ˈrē(ə)l

▶adjective
1 actually existing as a thing or occurring in fact; not imagined or supposed: Julius Caesar was a real person 
a story drawing on real events 
her many illnesses, real and imaginary. 
• used to emphasize the significance or seriousness of a situation or circumstance: there is a real danger of civil war 
the competitive threat from overseas is very real. 
• Philosophy relating to something as it is, not merely as it may be described or distinguished.
2 (of a substance or thing) not imitation or artificial; genuine: the earring was presumably real gold. 
• true or actual: his real name is James 
this isn't my real reason for coming. 
• [attributive] (of a person or thing) rightly so called; proper: he's my idea of a real man 
Jamie is my only real friend.
3 [attributive] informal complete; utter (used for emphasis): the tour turned out to be a real disaster.
4 [attributive] adjusted for changes in the value of money; assessed by purchasing power: real incomes had fallen by 30 percent 
an increase in real terms of 11.6 percent.
5 Law of fixed property (i.e., land and buildings), as distinct from personal property: he lost nearly all of his real holdings.
6 Mathematics (of a number or quantity) having no imaginary part. See imaginary.
7 Optics (of an image) of a kind in which the light that forms it actually passes through it; not virtual. 
▶adverb [as submodifier] informal, chiefly North American really; very: my head hurts real bad. 
PHRASES
for real informal used to assert that something is genuine or is actually the case: I'm not playing games—this is for real! 
• North American used in questions to express surprise or to question the truth or seriousness of what one has seen or heard: are these guys for real? get real! informal, chiefly North American used to convey that an idea or statement is foolish or overly idealistic: You want teens to have committed sexual relationships? Get real! real live humorous used to emphasize the existence of something, especially if it is surprising or unusual: a real live detective had been at the factory. real money informal money in a large or significant amount. the real thing informal a thing that is absolutely genuine or authentic: you've never been in love before, so how can you be sure this is the real thing?DERIVATIVES realness nounORIGIN late Middle English (as a legal term meaning ‘relating to things, especially real property’): from Anglo-Norman French, from late Latin realis, from Latin res ‘thing.’
