same 
sām

▶adjective (the same)
1 identical; not different: she was saying the same thing over and over 
I have never made the same mistake since 
I'm the same age as you are 
[with clause] : he put on the same costume that he had worn in Ottawa. 
• not having changed; unchanged: he's worked at the same place for quite a few years. 
• used to emphasize that one is referring to a particular, unique person or thing: people will always notice if you wear the same shirt two days running 
they drank out of the same glass. 
• (this/that same) referring to a person or thing just mentioned: that same year I went to Boston.
2 of an identical type; exactly similar: they all wore the same clothes. 
▶pronoun
1 (the same) the same thing as something previously mentioned: I'll resign and encourage everyone else to do the same. 
• people or things that are identical or share the same characteristics: there are several brands and they're not all the same.
2 (chiefly in formal or legal use) the person or thing just mentioned: sighted sub, sank same. 
▶adverb similarly; in the same way: treating women the same as men 
he gave me five dollars, same as usual. 
PHRASES
all (or just) the same in spite of this; nevertheless: she knew they had meant it kindly, but it had hurt all the same. 
• in any case; anyway: I can manage alone, thanks all the same. at the same time see time. be all the same to be unimportant to (someone) what happens: it was all the same to me where it was being sold. by the same token see token. one and the same the same person or thing (used for emphasis): the guy in the glasses and Superman were one and the same. same difference informal used to express the speaker's belief that two or more things are essentially the same, in spite of apparent differences. same here informal the same applies to me. (the) same to you! may you do or have the same thing (a response to a greeting or insult). the very same the same (used for emphasis, often to express surprise): the very same thrillers that flop in theaters become video hits.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old Norse sami, from an Indo-European root shared by Sanskrit sama,Greek homos .
