season 
ˈsēzən

▶noun
1 each of the four divisions of the year (spring, summer, autumn, and winter) marked by particular weather patterns and daylight hours, resulting from the earth's changing position with regard to the sun. 
• a period of the year characterized by a particular climatic feature or marked by a particular activity, event, or festivity: the rainy season 
the season for gathering pine needles. 
• a fixed time in the year when a particular sport is played: basketball season is over. 
• the time of year when a particular fruit, vegetable, or other food is plentiful and in good condition: the pies are made with fruit that is in season 
lobster season. 
• archaic a proper or suitable time: to everything there is a season. 
• archaic an indefinite or unspecified period of time; a while: this most beautiful soul, who walked with me for a season in this world.
2 chiefly North American a set or sequence of related television programs: the first two seasons of the show.
3 a period when a female mammal is ready to mate: the bitch can come into season at irregular intervals. 
▶verb [with object]
1 add salt, herbs, pepper, or other spices to (food): season the soup to taste with salt and pepper. 
• add a quality or feature to (something), especially so as to make it more lively or exciting: his conversation is seasoned liberally with exclamation points and punch lines.
2 make (wood) suitable for use as timber by adjusting its moisture content to that of the environment in which it will be used. 
PHRASES
for all seasons suitable in or appropriate for every kind of weather: a coat for all seasons. 
• adaptable to any circumstance: a singer for all seasons. in season
1 (of a fruit, vegetable, or other food) grown or available at the time of year in question: buy fruit and vegetables that are in season.
2 (of a female mammal) ready to mate: this system of communication works very well, especially when a female is in season.
3 archaic at the right or proper time: they arrive in season for the meeting. out of season
1 (of a fruit, vegetable, or other food) not grown or available at the time of year in question: oranges are out of season 
customer demand for out of season crops.
2 at the time of year when a place is less popular or fashionable : English seaside resorts out of season famously possess a melancholy charm 
it had the feel of an out of season ski resort. season's greetings used as an expression of goodwill at Christmas or the New Year.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French seson, from Latin satio(n-) ‘sowing,’ later ‘time of sowing,’ from the root of serere ‘to sow.’
