see 
▶verb
1 he saw her running across the road: discern, spot, notice, catch sight of, glimpse, catch/get a glimpse of, make out, pick out, spy, distinguish, detect, perceive, note; informal lay/set eyes on; literary behold, descry, espy.
2 I saw a documentary about it last week: watch, look at, view; catch.
3 would you like to see the house? inspect, view, look round, tour, survey, examine, scrutinize; informal give something a/the once-over.
4 I finally saw what she meant: understand, grasp, comprehend, follow, take in, realize, appreciate, recognize, work out, get the drift of, perceive, fathom; informal get, latch on to, cotton on to, catch on to, savvy, figure out, get a fix on.
5 I must go and see what Victor is up to: find out, discover, learn, ascertain, determine, establish.
6 see that no harm comes to him: ensure, make sure/certain, see to it, take care, mind.
7 I see trouble ahead: foresee, predict, forecast, prophesy, anticipate, envisage, picture, visualize.
8 about a year later, I saw him in town: encounter, meet, run into/across, come across, stumble on/across, happen on, chance on; informal bump into.
9 they see each other from time to time: meet, meet up with, get together with, socialize with.
10 you'd better see a doctor: consult, confer with, talk to, speak to, have recourse to, call on, call in, turn to, ask.
11 he's seeing someone else now: go out with, date, take out, be involved with; informal go steady with; dated court.
12 he saw her to her car: escort, accompany, show, walk, conduct, lead, take, usher, attend.
PHRASES
see through
1 they can see through your dirty little plan: understand, get/have the measure of, read like a book; informal be wise to; have someone's number (about).
2 Marlon saw us through these long, hard months: sustain, encourage, buoy up, keep going, support, be a tower of strength to, comfort, help (out), stand by, stick by.
3 I'm tired of this campaign, but I promised I would see it through: persevere with, persist with, continue (with), carry on with, keep at, follow through, stay with; informal stick to, stick it out, hang in there (with/for). see to I'll see to the dogs as soon as we finish lunch: attend to, deal with, see about, take care of, look after, sort out, fix, organize, arrange.
