send
1 
send

▶verb (past and past participle sent 
sent
)
1 [with object] cause to go or be taken to a particular destination; arrange for the delivery of, especially by mail: we sent a reminder letter but received no reply 
[with two objects] : he sent her a nice little note. 
• cause (a message or computer file) to be transmitted electronically: send your document as a PDF attachment 
[with two objects] : I sent him an email last week. 
• order or instruct to go to a particular destination or in a particular direction: Clemons sent me to Bangkok for R&
R.  
• [no object, with infinitive] send a message or letter: he sent to invite her to supper. 
• cause to move sharply or quickly; propel: the volcano sent clouds of ash up four miles into the air. 
• (send someone to) arrange for someone to go to (an institution) and stay there for a particular purpose: many parents prefer to send their children to single-sex schools.
2 [with object] informal affect with powerful emotion; put into ecstasy: it's the spectacle and music that send us, not the words. 
PHRASES
send someone flying cause someone to be knocked violently off balance or to the ground. send someone packing see pack1. send someone to the showers see shower. send word send a message: he sent word that he was busy.PHRASAL VERBS send away for order or request that (something) be sent to one: you can send away for the recipe. send someone down British
1 expel a student from a university.
2 informal sentence someone to imprisonment: you're going to get sent down for possessing drugs. send for order or instruct (someone) to come to one; summon: if you don't go I shall send for the police. 
• order by mail: send for our mail order catalog. send something in submit material to be considered for a competition or possible publication: don't forget to send in your entries for our summer competition. send off for order or request that (something) be sent to one: I sent off for a handy pack of cards containing useful facts. send someone off instruct someone to go; arrange for someone's departure: she sent him off to a lecturing engagement. 
• (of a referee, especially in soccer or rugby) order a player to leave the field and take no further part in the game: the player was sent off for rough play. send something off dispatch something by mail: please take a moment or two to send off a check to a good cause. send something on transmit mail or luggage to a further destination or in advance of one's own arrival: I've got your catalog—would you like me to send it on? send out for something order delivery of something: we sent out for pizza. send something out
1 produce or give out something; emit something: radar signals were sent out in powerful pulses.
2 dispatch items to a number of people; distribute something widely: the company sent out written information about the stock. send someone up US sentence someone to imprisonment: he was sent up for arson. send someone/something up informal give an exaggerated imitation of someone or something in order to ridicule them: the humorist who sent up sacred cows like school spirit.DERIVATIVES sendable adjectiveORIGIN Old English sendan, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch zenden and German senden .
