set
1 
▶verb
1 Beth set the bag on the table: put (down), place, lay, deposit, position, settle, leave, stand, plant, posit; informal stick, dump, park, plunk.
2 the cottage is set on a hill: be situated, be located, lie, stand, be sited, be perched.
3 the fence is set in concrete: fix, embed, insert; mount.
4 a ring set with precious stones: adorn, ornament, decorate, embellish; literary bejewel.
5 I'll go and set the table: lay, prepare, arrange.
6 we set them some easy tasks: assign, allocate, give, allot, prescribe.
7 just set your mind to it: apply, address, direct, aim, turn, focus, concentrate.
8 they set a date for the election: decide on, select, choose, arrange, schedule; fix (on), settle on, determine, designate, name, appoint, specify, stipulate.
9 he set his horse toward her: direct, steer, orient, orientate, point, aim, train.
10 his jump set a national record: establish, create, institute.
11 he set his watch: adjust, regulate, synchronize; calibrate; put right, correct; program, activate, turn on.
12 the adhesive will set in an hour: solidify, harden, stiffen, thicken, jell, cake, congeal, coagulate, clot; freeze, crystallize. ANTONYMS melt.
13 the sun was setting: go down, sink, dip; vanish, disappear. ANTONYMS rise.
PHRASES
set about Mike set about raising $5,000: begin, start, commence, go about, get to work on, get down to, embark on, tackle, address oneself to, undertake. set against you deliberately set me against my family: alienate from, estrange from, set at odds; drive a wedge between (one and another), sow dissension between (one and another). set apart
1 the orchestral background sets this song apart from the rest: distinguish, differentiate, mark out, single out, separate, demarcate.
2 one pew was set apart from the rest: isolate, separate, segregate, put to one side. set aside
1 set aside some money each month: save, put by, put aside, put away, lay by, keep, reserve; store, stockpile, hoard, stow away, cache, withhold; informal salt away, squirrel away, stash away.
2 he set aside his cup: put down, cast aside, discard, abandon, dispense with.
3 set aside your differences: disregard, put aside, ignore, forget, discount, shrug off, bury.
4 the Supreme Court set aside the decision: overrule, overturn, reverse, revoke, countermand, nullify, annul, cancel, quash, dismiss, reject, repudiate; Law disaffirm; formal abrogate. set back the rains have set back the work on the bridge: delay, hold up, hold back, slow down/up, retard, check, decelerate; hinder, impede, hobble, obstruct, hamper, inhibit, frustrate, thwart. set down
1 he set down his thoughts: write down, put in writing, jot down, note down, make a note of; record, register, log.
2 we set down some rules: formulate, draw up, establish, frame; lay down, determine, fix, stipulate, specify, prescribe, impose, ordain.
3 I set it down to the fact that he was drunk: attribute, put down, ascribe, assign, chalk up; blame on, impute. set forth you have set forth a very credible argument: present, describe, set out, detail, delineate, explain, expound; state, declare, announce; submit, offer, put forward, advance, propose, propound. set free the hostages were set free just minutes ago: release, free, let go, turn loose, let out, liberate, deliver, emancipate. set in bad weather set in: begin, start, arrive, come, develop. set off
1 they set off for America with nothing but the clothes on their backs: set out, start out, sally forth, leave, depart, embark, set sail; informal hit the road.
2 the bomb was set off: detonate, explode, blow up, touch off, trigger; ignite.
3 it set off a wave of protest: give rise to, cause, lead to, set in motion, occasion, bring about, initiate, precipitate, prompt, trigger (off), spark (off), touch off, provoke, incite.
4 the blue dress set off her auburn hair: enhance, bring out, emphasize, show off, throw into relief; complement. set on/upon the relentless Cossacks set upon village after village: attack, assail, assault, hit, strike, beat, thrash, pummel, wallop, set about, fall on; informal lay into, lace into, let someone have it, work over, rough up, knock about/around, have a go at, beat up on, light into. set one's heart on I think she's set her heart on the orange kitten: want desperately, wish for, desire, long for, yearn for, hanker after, ache for, hunger for, thirst for, burn for; informal be itching for, be dying for. set out
1 he set out early: set off, start out, sally forth, leave, depart, embark, set sail; informal hit the road.
2 the gifts were set out on tables: arrange, lay out, put out, array, dispose, display, exhibit.
3 they set out some guidelines: present, set forth, detail; state, declare, announce; submit, put forward, advance, propose, propound.
4 you've done what you set out to do: aim, intend, mean, seek; hope, aspire, want. set up
1 his father set him up in business: establish, finance, fund, back, subsidize.
2 informal she set him up for Newley's murder: falsely incriminate, frame, entrap.
3 a monument to her memory was set up: erect, put up, construct, build, raise, elevate.
4 she set up her own business: establish, start, begin, initiate, institute, found, create.
5 set up a meeting: arrange, organize, fix (up), schedule, timetable, line up.
6 set up a committee: establish, form. REFLECTIONS Simon Winchesterset I include this simply as an aide-mémoire: there are more meanings for this innocent-looking trinity of letters than there are for any other word in the English language—fully 62 columns’ worth in the complete Oxford English Dictionary, and which naturally include such obvious examples as: the condition of what the sun does each evening; a major part of a game of tennis; what one does if one embarks on a journey; what one does if one puts something down on a table; a collection of a number of items of a particular kind; and a further score, or more, of other disparate and unconnected things and actions. Set is a term in bowling; it is what a dog (especially a setter, of course) does when he is dealing with game; it is a grudge; what cement does when it dries; what Jell-O does when it doesn't dry; a form of power used by shipwrights; what a young woman does when she wants to secure a man's affections; the direction of a current at sea; the build of a person; a kind of underdeveloped fruit; the stake that is put down at dice … need I go on? In the search for a synonym it is worth pointing out, and only half in jest, that it is quite possible that one or other meanings for set might fit the bill, exactly, and will have you all set, semantically, and quite neatly, without nearly as much effort as you supposed.Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
