sick
1 
sik

▶adjective
1 affected by physical or mental illness: nursing very sick children 
we were sick with bronchitis 
(as plural noun the sick) : visiting the sick and the elderly. 
• relating to those who are ill: the company organized a sick fund for its workers. 
• (of an organization, system, or society) suffering from serious problems, especially of a financial nature: their economy remains sick. 
• archaic pining or longing for someone or something: he was sick for a sight of her.
2 [predicative] feeling nauseous and wanting to vomit: he was starting to feel sick 
Mark felt sick with fear. 
• [attributive] (of an emotion) so intense as to cause one to feel unwell or nauseous: he had a sick fear of returning. 
• informal disappointed, mortified, or miserable: he looked pretty sick at that, but he eventually agreed.
3 [predicative] (sick of) intensely annoyed with or bored by (someone or something) as a result of having had too much of them: I'm absolutely sick of your moods.
4 informal (especially of humor) having something unpleasant such as death, illness, or misfortune as its subject and dealing with it in an offensive way: this was someone's idea of a sick joke. 
• (of a person) having abnormal or unnatural tendencies; perverted: he is a deeply sick man from whom society needs to be protected.
5 informal excellent: it was a sick party and there were tons of cool people there. 
▶noun British informal vomit. 
▶verb [with object] (sick something up) British informal bring something up by vomiting. 
PHRASES
be sick
1 be ill.
2 vomit. fall (or take) sick become ill. get sick
1 become ill.
2 North American vomit. make someone sick cause someone to vomit or feel nauseous or unwell: sherry makes me sick and so do cigars. 
• cause someone to feel intense annoyance or disgust: you're so damned self-righteous you make me sick! —— oneself sick do something to such an extent that one feels nauseous or unwell (often used for emphasis): she was worrying herself sick about Mike. sick and tired of informal annoyed about or bored with (someone or something) and unwilling to put up with them any longer: I am sick and tired of all the criticism. (as) sick as a dog informal extremely ill. (as) sick as a parrot British informal extremely disappointed. the sick man of —— a country that is politically or economically unsound, especially in comparison with its neighbors in the region specified: the country had been the sick man of Europe for too long. [from a use of sick man, frequently applied in the late 19th century to the Sultan of Turkey, later extended to Turkey and other countries.] sick to death of informal annoyed about or bored with (someone or something) and unwilling to put up with them any longer: I am sick to death of being told that this is our fault. sick to one's stomach nauseous. 
• disgusted.DERIVATIVES sickish adjectiveORIGIN Old English sēoc ‘affected by illness,’ of Germanic origin; related to Dutch ziek and German siech .
