sink 
▶verb
1 the coffin sank below the waves: become submerged, be engulfed, go down, drop, fall, descend. ANTONYMS float, rise.
2 the cruise liner sank yesterday: founder, go under, submerge.
3 they sank their ships: scuttle, send to the bottom; scupper.
4 the announcement sank hopes of a recovery: destroy, ruin, wreck, put an end to, demolish, smash, shatter, dash; informal put the kibosh on, put paid to; informal scupper; archaic bring to naught.
5 I sank myself in student life: immerse, submerge, plunge, lose, bury.
6 the plane sank toward the airstrip: descend, drop, go down/downward. ANTONYMS ascend.
7 the sun was sinking: set, go down/downward. ANTONYMS rise.
8 Loretta sank into an armchair: lower oneself, flop, collapse, fall, drop down, slump; informal plunk oneself.
9 her voice sank to a whisper: fall, drop, become/get quieter, become/get softer. ANTONYMS rise.
10 she would never sink to your level: stoop, lower oneself, descend.
11 he was sinking fast: deteriorate, decline, fade, grow weak, flag, waste away; be at death's door, be on one's deathbed, be slipping away; informal go downhill, be on one's last legs, be giving up the ghost. ANTONYMS recover, improve.
12 sink the pots into the ground: embed, insert, drive, plant.
13 sinking a gold mine: dig, excavate, bore, drill.
14 they sank their life savings into the company: invest, venture, risk.
▶noun he washed himself at the sink: basin, wash basin; dated lavabo.
PHRASES
sink in bad news like this often takes time to sink in: register, be understood, be comprehended, be grasped, get through. 
USAGE
sink, sank, sunk, sunken Historically, the past tense of sink has been both sank and sunk (the boat sank; the boat sunk), and the past participle has been both sunk and sunken (the boat had already sunk; the boat had already sunken). In modern English, the past is generally sank and the past participle is sunk, with the form sunken now surviving only as an adjective, as in a sunken garden or sunken cheeks.Usage notes show additional guidance on finer points of English usage.
