slice 
slīs

▶noun
1 a thin, broad piece of food, such as bread, meat, or cake, cut from a larger portion: four slices of bread 
potato slices. 
• a single serving of pizza, typically one eighth of a pie: every payday we'd meet at Vinnie's for a beer and a couple of slices. 
• a portion or share of something: local authorities control a huge slice of public spending.
2 Golf a stroke that makes the ball curve away to the right (for a left-handed player, the left), typically inadvertently. Compare with hook . 
• (in other sports) a shot or stroke made with glancing contact to impart spin.
3 a utensil with a broad, flat blade for lifting foods such as cake and fish. 
▶verb [with object]
1 cut (something, especially food) into slices: slice the onion into rings 
(as adjective sliced) : a sliced loaf. 
• (slice something off/from) cut something or a piece of something off or from (something larger), typically with one clean cut: he sliced a corner from a fried egg 
figurative : he sliced 70 seconds off the record. 
• cut with or as if with a sharp implement: the bomber's wings were slicing the air with some efficiency 
[no object] : the blade sliced into his palm. 
• [no object] move easily and quickly: Senna then sliced past Berger to take third place.
2 Golf strike (the ball) or play (a stroke) so that the ball curves away to the right (for a left-handed player, the left), typically inadvertently. 
• (in other sports) propel (the ball) with a glancing contact to impart spin: Evans went and sliced a corner into his own net. 
PHRASES
slice and dice divide a quantity of information up into smaller parts, especially in order to analyze it more closely or in different ways: each network has analysis teams that slice and dice the exit poll information to find a conclusion. slice of life a realistic representation of everyday experience in a movie, play, or book.DERIVATIVES sliceable adjective. slicer 
ˈslīsər 
noun [often in combination] : a cheese-slicerORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘fragment, splinter’): shortening of Old French esclice ‘splinter,’ from the verb esclicier, of Germanic origin; related to German schleissen ‘to slice,’ also to slit .
