slip
1 
▶verb
1 she slipped on the ice: slide, skid, glide; fall (over), lose one's balance, tumble.
2 the envelope slipped through Luke's fingers: fall, drop, slide.
3 we slipped out by a back door: creep, steal, sneak, slide, sidle, slope, slink, tiptoe.
4 standards have slipped: decline, deteriorate, degenerate, worsen, get worse, fall (off), drop; informal go downhill, go to the dogs, go to pot.
5 the stock index slipped 30 points: drop, go down, sink, slump, decrease, depreciate.
6 the hours slipped by : pass, elapse, go by/past, roll by/past, fly by/past, tick by/past.
7 she slipped the map into her pocket: put, tuck, shove; informal pop, stick, stuff.
8 Sarah slipped into a black skirt: put on, pull on, don, dress/clothe oneself in; change into.
9 she slipped out of her clothes: take off, remove, pull off, doff, peel off.
10 he slipped the knot of his tie: untie, unfasten, undo.
▶noun
1 a single slip could send them plummeting downward: false step, misstep, slide, skid, fall, tumble.
2 a careless slip: mistake, error, blunder, gaffe; oversight, omission, lapse, inaccuracy; slip of the tongue/pen, eggcorn; informal slip-up, boo-boo, howler, goof, blooper.
3 a silk slip: underskirt, petticoat.
PHRASES
give someone the slip informal we gave Murphy the slip and headed for the docks: escape from, get away from, evade, dodge, elude, lose, shake off, throw off (the scent), get clear of. let something slip who let it slip that we were hiding here? reveal, disclose, divulge, let out, give away, blurt out; give the game away; informal let on, blab, let the cat out of the bag, spill the beans. slip away
1 they managed to slip away: escape, get away, break free; informal fly the coop, take a powder.
2 she slipped away in her sleep. See die (sense 1). slip up informal Hennie slipped up and left the corral open: make a mistake, (make a) blunder, get something wrong, make an error, err; informal make a boo-boo, goof up. CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD See mistake .These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
