slow 
slō

▶adjective
1 moving or operating, or designed to do so, only at a low speed; not quick or fast: a time when diesel cars were slow and noisy 
a slow dot-matrix printer. 
• taking a long time to perform a specified action: she was a slow reader 
[with infinitive] : large organizations can be slow to change. 
• lasting or taking a long time: a slow process 
the journey home was slow. 
• [attributive] not allowing or intended for fast travel: the slow lane. 
• (of a playing field) likely to make the ball bounce or run slowly or to prevent competitors from traveling fast.
2 [predicative or as complement] (of a clock or watch) showing a time earlier than the correct time: the clock was five minutes slow.
3 not prompt to understand, think, or learn: he's so slow, so unimaginative.
4 uneventful and rather dull: a slow and mostly aimless narrative. 
• (of business) with little activity; slack: sales were slow.
5 Photography (of a film) needing long exposure. 
• (of a lens) having a small aperture.
6 (of a fire or oven) burning or giving off heat gently: bake the dish in a preheated slow oven. 
▶adverb at a slow pace; slowly: the train went slower and slower 
[in combination] : a slow-moving river. 
▶verb [no object] reduce one's speed or the speed of a vehicle or process: the train slowed to a halt 
investment has slowed down 
[with object] : he slowed the car. 
• (slow down/up) live or work less actively or intensely: I wasn't feeling well and had to slow down. 
PHRASES
slow but sure not quick but achieving the required result eventually: a slow but sure increase in the price of gold.DERIVATIVES slowish adjectiveORIGIN Old English slāw ‘slow-witted, sluggish,’ of Germanic origin. usage: The word slow is normally used as an adjective ( a slow learner; the journey was slow). It is also used as an adverb in certain specific contexts, including compounds such as slow-acting and slow-moving and in the expression go slow. Other adverbial use is informal and usually regarded as nonstandard, as in he drives too slow and go as slow as you can. In such contexts, standard English uses slowly instead. The use of slow and slowly in this respect contrasts with the use of fast, which is completely standard in use as both an adjective and an adverb; there is no word 'fastly '.
