so
1 
sō

▶adverb
1 [as submodifier] to such a great extent: the words tumbled out so fast that I could barely hear them 
don't look so worried 
I'm not so foolish as to say that. 
• extremely; very much (used for emphasis): she looked so pretty 
I do love it so. 
• informal used to emphasize a clause or negative statement: that's so not fair 
you are so going to regret this. 
• informal used with a gesture to indicate size: the bird was about so long.
2 [as submodifier with negative] to the same extent (used in comparisons): he isn't so bad as you'd think 
without his parents’ support, he would not have done so well.
3 referring back to something previously mentioned. 
• that is the case: “Is it going to rain?” “I think so.” 
if she notices, she never says so. 
• the truth: I hear that you're a writer—is that so? 
• similarly; and also: times have changed and so have 
I.  
• expressing agreement: “It's cold in here.” “So it is.” 
• informal used to emphatically contradict a negative statement: it is so!
4 in the way described or demonstrated; thus: hold your arms so 
so it was that he was still a bachelor. 
▶conjunction
1 and for this reason; therefore: it was still painful, so I went to see a specialist 
you know I'm telling the truth, so don't interrupt. 
• (so that) with the result that: it was overgrown with brambles, so that I had difficulty making any progress.
2 (so that) with the aim that; in order that: they whisper to each other so that no one else can hear.
3 and then; as the next step: and so to the finals.
4 introducing a question: so, what did you do today? 
• introducing a question following on from what was said previously: so what did he do about it? 
• (also so what?) informal why should that be considered significant?: “Marv is wearing a suit.” “So?” 
so what if he failed?
5 introducing a statement that is followed by a defensive comment: so I like anchovies—what's wrong with that?
6 introducing a concluding statement: so that's that.
7 in the same way; correspondingly: just as bad money drives out good, so does bad art drive out the good. 
PHRASES
and so on (or forth) and similar things; et cetera: these snacks include cheeses, cold meats, and so on.just so much chiefly derogatory emphasizing a large amount of something: it's just so much ideological cant. not so much —— as —— not —— but rather ——: the novel was not so much unfinished as unfinishable. only so much a limited amount: there is only so much you can do to protect yourself. or so see or1. so as to do something in order to do something: she had put her hair up so as to look older. so be it an expression of acceptance or resignation. so far see far. so far, so good see far. so long! informal goodbye until we meet again. so long as see long1. so many (or much) indicating a particular but unspecified quantity: so many hours at such-and-such a speed.so much as [with negative] even: he sat down without so much as a word to anyone. so much for
1 indicating that one has finished talking about something: So much for the melodic line. We now turn our attention to the accompaniment.
2 suggesting that something has not been successful or useful: so much for that idea! so much so that to such an extent that: I was fascinated by the company, so much so that I wrote a book about it. so to speak (or say) used to highlight the fact that one is describing something in an unusual or metaphorical way: delving into the body's secrets, I looked death in the face, so to speak.ORIGIN Old English swā, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch zo and German so .
