speed 
spēd

▶noun
1 the rate at which someone or something is able to move or operate: we turned onto the runway and began to gather speed 
an engine running at full speed 
the car has a top speed of 147 mph. 
• rapidity of movement or action: the accident was due to excessive speed. 
• the rate at which something happens or is done: they were bemused by the speed of events 
the course is delivered on CDROM so students can progress at their own speed.
2 each of the possible gear ratios of a bicycle or motor vehicle.
3 the light-gathering power or f-number of a camera lens. 
• the duration of a photographic exposure. 
• the sensitivity of photographic film to light.
4 informal an amphetamine drug, especially methamphetamine.
5 informal something that matches one's tastes or inclinations: oak tables and chairs are more his speed.
6 archaic success; prosperity: wish me good speed. 
▶verb (past sped 
sped
or speeded)
1 [no object] move quickly: I got into the car and home we sped. 
• (of a motorist) travel at a speed that is greater than the legal limit: the car that crashed was speeding. 
• (speed up) move or work more quickly: you force yourself to speed up because you don't want to keep others waiting. 
• [with object] cause to move, act, or happen more quickly: recent initiatives have sought to speed up decision-making.
2 [with object] archaic make prosperous or successful: may God speed you.
3 [no object] informal take or be under the influence of an amphetamine drug: more kids than ever are speeding, tripping, and getting stoned. 
PHRASES
at speed quickly: a car flashed past them at speed. pick up speed (of a vehicle) go faster; accelerate. up to speed operating at full speed. 
• (of a person or company) performing at an anticipated rate or level. 
• (of a person) fully informed or up to date: that reminds me to bring you up to speed on the soap opera.DERIVATIVES speeder 
ˈspēdər 
nounORIGIN Old English spēd (noun), spēdan (verb), from the Germanic base of Old English spōwan ‘prosper, succeed,’ a sense reflected in early usage.
