stamp 
stamp

▶verb [with object]
1 bring down (one's foot) heavily on the ground or on something on the ground: he stamped his foot in frustration 
[no object] : he threw his cigarette down and stamped on it 
figurative : Robertson stamped on all these suggestions. 
• crush, flatten, or remove with a heavy blow from one's feet: she stamped the snow from her boots. 
• [no object] walk with heavy, forceful steps: John stamped off, muttering.
2 impress a pattern or mark, especially an official one, on (a surface, object, or document) using an engraved or inked block or die or other instrument: the woman stamped my passport. 
• impress (a pattern or mark) on something by engraving or inking: a key with a number stamped on the shaft 
figurative : it's one of those records that has ‘classic’ stamped all over it. 
• make (something) by cutting it out with a die or mold: the knives are stamped out from a flat strip of steel. 
• reveal or mark out as having a particular character, quality, or ability: his style stamps him as a player to watch.
3 affix a postage stamp or stamps onto (a letter or package): Annie stamped the envelope for her.
4 crush or pulverize (ore). 
▶noun
1 an instrument for stamping a pattern or mark, in particular an engraved or inked block or die. 
• a mark or pattern made by a stamping instrument, especially one indicating official validation or certification: passports with visa stamps 
figurative : the emperor gave them his stamp of approval. 
• a characteristic or distinctive impression or quality: the whole project has the stamp of authority. 
• a particular class or type or person or thing: empiricism of this stamp has been especially influential in British philosophy.
2 a small adhesive piece of paper stuck to something to show that an amount of money has been paid, in particular a postage stamp: a first-class stamp.
3 an act or sound of stamping with the foot: the stamp of boots on the bare floor.
4 a block for crushing ore in a stamp mill. 
PHRASES
stamp one's authority (or personality or style etc.) on have a strong or permanent influence on: he must be able to stamp his authority on the team.PHRASAL VERBS stamp something out
1 extinguish a fire by stamping on it: he stamped out the flames before they could grow.
2 suppress or put an end to something by taking decisive action: urgent action is required to stamp out corruption.DERIVATIVES stamper 
ˈstampər 
nounORIGIN Middle English (in the sense ‘crush to a powder’): of Germanic origin; related to German stampfen ‘stamp with the foot’; reinforced by Old French estamper ‘to stamp.’ Compare with stomp .
