stand 
▶verb
1 Lionel stood in the doorway: be on one's feet, be upright, be erect, be vertical. ANTONYMS sit, lie.
2 the men stood up : rise, get/rise to one's feet, get up, straighten up, pick oneself up, find one's feet, be upstanding; formal arise. ANTONYMS sit down, lie down.
3 today a house stands on the site: be, exist, be situated, be located, be positioned, be sited, have been built.
4 he stood the book on the shelf: put, set, set up, erect, up-end, place, position, locate, prop, lean, stick, install, arrange; informal park.
5 my decision stands: remain in force, remain valid/effective/operative, remain in operation, hold, hold good, apply, be the case, exist.
6 her heart could not stand the strain: withstand, endure, bear, put up with, take, cope with, handle, sustain, resist, stand up to.
7 informal I can't stand arrogance: endure, tolerate, bear, put up with, take, abide, support, countenance; informal swallow, stomach; formal brook.
▶noun
1 the party's stand on immigration: attitude, stance, point of view, viewpoint, opinion, way of thinking, outlook, standpoint, position, approach, thinking, policy, line.
2 a stand against tyranny: opposition, resistance, objection, hostility, animosity.
3 a large mirror on a stand: base, support, mounting, platform, rest, plinth, bottom; tripod, rack, trivet.
4 a beer stand: stall, counter, booth, kiosk, tent.
5 a taxi stand: stop, station, park, bay.
6 the train drew to a stand: stop, halt, standstill, dead stop.
7 a stand of trees: copse, thicket, grove, bush, woodlot.
PHRASES
stand by
1 stand by for further instructions: wait, be prepared, be in (a state of) readiness, be ready for action, be on full alert, wait in the wings.
2 she stood by her husband: remain/be loyal to, stick with/by, remain/be true to, stand up for, support, back up, defend, stick up for.
3 the government must stand by its pledges: abide by, keep (to), adhere to, hold to, stick to, observe, comply with. stand down tell the troops to stand down: relax, stand easy, come off full alert. stand for
1 BC stands for British Columbia: mean, be an abbreviation of, represent, signify, denote, indicate, symbolize.
2 informal I won't stand for any nonsense: put up with, endure, tolerate, accept, take, abide, support, countenance; informal swallow, stomach; formal brook.
3 we stand for animal welfare: advocate, champion, uphold, defend, stand up for, support, back, endorse, be in favor of, promote, recommend, urge. stand in during Coach Clement's absence, Mr. Maynard will stand in: deputize, act, act as deputy, substitute, fill in, sit in, do duty, take over, act as locum, be a proxy, cover, hold the fort, step into the breach; replace, relieve, take over from; informal sub, fill someone's shoes, step into someone's shoes, pinch-hit. stand out
1 his veins stood out: project, stick out, bulge (out), be proud, jut (out).
2 she stood out in the crowd: be noticeable, be visible, be obvious, be conspicuous, stick out, be striking, be distinctive, be prominent, attract attention, catch the eye, leap out, show up; informal stick/stand out like a sore thumb. stand up
1 after 200 years, his theory still stands up: remain/be valid, be sound, be plausible, hold water, hold up, stand questioning, survive investigation, bear examination, be verifiable.
2 that creep Roger stood up his blind date: fail to keep a date with, fail to meet, fail to keep an appointment with, jilt. stand up for dozens of his students stood up for him at the hearing: support, defend, back, back up, stick up for, champion, promote, uphold, take someone's part, take the side of, side with. stand up to
1 she stood up to her parents: defy, confront, challenge, resist, take on, put up a fight against, argue with, take a stand against.
2 the old house has stood up to the war: withstand, survive, come through (unscathed), outlast, outlive, weather, ride out, ward off.
