stay
1 
stā

▶verb
1 [no object] remain in the same place: you stay here and I'll be back soon 
Jenny decided to stay at home with their young child 
he stayed with the firm as a consultant. 
• (stay for/to) delay leaving so as to join in (an activity): why not stay for lunch? 
• (stay down) (of food) remain in the stomach, rather than be thrown up as vomit: he gagged but the sandwich stayed down.
2 [no object] remain in a specified state or position: her ability to stay calm 
tactics used to stay in power 
I managed to stay out of trouble.
3 [no object] (of a person) live somewhere temporarily as a visitor or guest: the girls had gone to stay with friends 
Minton invited him to stay the night. 
• Scottish & South African live permanently: where do you stay?
4 [with object] stop, delay, or prevent (something), in particular suspend or postpone (judicial proceedings) or refrain from pressing (charges). 
• assuage (hunger) for a short time: I grabbed something to stay the pangs of hunger. 
• literary curb; check: he tries to stay the destructive course of barbarism. 
• [no object] archaic wait a moment in order to allow someone time to think or speak: stay, stand apart, I know not which is which.
5 [with object] literary support or prop up. 
▶noun
1 a period of staying somewhere, in particular of living somewhere temporarily as a visitor or guest: an overnight stay at a luxury hotel.
2 literary a curb or check: there is likely to be a good public library as a stay against boredom. 
• Law a suspension or postponement of judicial proceedings: a stay of prosecution.
3 a device used as a brace or support. 
• (stays) historical a corset made of two pieces laced together and stiffened by strips of whalebone.
4 archaic power of endurance. 
PHRASES
be here (or have come) to stay informal be permanent or widely accepted: the Internet is here to stay. stay the course (or distance) keep going strongly to the end of a race or contest. 
• pursue a difficult task or activity to the end.a stay of execution a delay in carrying out a court order. stay put (of a person or object) remain somewhere without moving or being moved.PHRASAL VERBS stay on continue to study, work, or be somewhere after others have left: 75 percent of sixteen-year-olds stay on in full-time education. stay over (of a guest or visitor) sleep somewhere, especially at someone's home, for the night. stay up not go to bed: they stayed up all night. stay with
1 remain in the mind or memory of (someone): Gary's words stayed with her all evening.
2 continue or persevere with (an activity or task): the incentive needed to stay with a healthy diet.
3 (of a competitor or player) keep up with (another) during a race or match.ORIGIN late Middle English (as a verb): from Anglo-Norman French estai-, stem of Old French ester, from Latin stare ‘to stand’; in the sense ‘support’ ( sense
5 of the verb and sense
3 of the noun), partly from Old French estaye (noun), estayer (verb), of Germanic origin.
