steal 
stēl

▶verb (past stole 
stōl
; past participle stolen 
ˈstōlən
)
1 [with object] take (another person's property) without permission or legal right and without intending to return it: thieves stole her bicycle 
[no object] : she was found guilty of stealing from her employers 
(as adjective stolen) : stolen goods. 
• dishonestly pass off (another person's ideas) as one's own: accusations that one group had stolen ideas from the other were soon flying. 
• take the opportunity to give or share (a kiss) when it is not expected or when people are not watching: he was allowed to steal a kiss in the darkness. 
• (in various sports) gain (an advantage, a run, or possession of the ball) unexpectedly or by exploiting the temporary distraction of an opponent. 
• Baseball (of a base runner) advance safely to (the next base) by running to it as the pitcher begins the delivery: Rickey stole third base.
2 [no object] move somewhere quietly or surreptitiously: he stole down to the kitchen 
figurative : a delicious languor was stealing over her. 
• [with object] direct (a look) quickly and unobtrusively: he stole a furtive glance at her. 
▶noun [in singular]
1 informal a bargain: for $5 it was a steal.
2 chiefly North American an act of stealing something: New York's biggest art steal. 
• an idea taken from another work. 
• Baseball an act of stealing a base. 
• chiefly Basketball & Hockey an act of taking possession of the ball or puck from an opponent: point guard Kaleb Joseph finished with eight points, four steals, and seven assists. 
PHRASES
steal someone blind see blind. steal a march on gain an advantage over (someone), typically by acting before they do: stores that open on Sunday are stealing a march on their competitors. steal someone's heart win someone's love. steal the show attract the most attention and praise. steal someone's thunder win praise for oneself by preempting someone else's attempt to impress. [from an exclamation by the English dramatist John Dennis (1657–1734), who invented a method of simulating the sound of thunder as a theatrical sound effect and used it in an unsuccessful play. Shortly after his play came to the end of its brief run he heard his new thunder effects used at a performance of Shakespeare's Macbeth, whereupon he is said to have exclaimed: “Damn them! They will not let my play run, but they steal my thunder!”]DERIVATIVES stealable adjective. stealer 
ˈstēlər 
noun [in combination] : a sheep-stealer. stealing 
ˈstēliNG 
nounORIGIN Old English stelan (verb), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch stelen and German stehlen .
