stir
1 
stər

▶verb (stirs, stirring, stirred)
1 [with object] move a spoon or other implement around in (a liquid or other substance) in order to mix it thoroughly: stir the batter until it is just combined. 
• (stir something in/into) add an ingredient to (a liquid or other substance) by mixing it in with a spoon or other implement: stir in the flour and cook gently for two minutes.
2 move or cause to move slightly: [no object] : nothing stirred except the wind 
[with object] : a gentle breeze stirred the leaves 
cloudiness is caused by the fish stirring up mud. 
• (of a person or animal) rise or wake from sleep: no one else had stirred yet. 
• (stir from) (of a person) leave or go out of (a place): as he grew older, he seldom stirred from his apartment. 
• begin or cause to begin to be active or to develop: [no object] : the 1960s, when the civil rights movement stirred 
[with object] : a voice stirred her from her reverie 
he even stirred himself to play an encore.
3 [with object] arouse strong feelings in (someone); move or excite: they will be stirred to action by what is written 
he stirred up the sweating crowd. 
• arouse or prompt (a feeling or memory) or inspire (the imagination): the story stirred many memories of my childhood 
the rumors had stirred up his anger. 
▶noun [in singular]
1 a slight physical movement: I stood, straining eyes and ears for the faintest stir. 
• a commotion: the event caused quite a stir. 
• an initial sign of a specified feeling: Caroline felt a stir of anger deep within her breast.
2 an act of mixing food or drink with a spoon or other implement: he gives his chocolate milk a stir. 
PHRASES
stir someone's blood make someone excited or enthusiastic. stir one's stumps [often in imperative] British informal, dated (of a person) begin to move or act.PHRASAL VERBS stir something up cause or provoke trouble or bad feeling: he accused me of trying to stir up trouble.ORIGIN Old English styrian, of Germanic origin; related to German stören ‘disturb.’
