stone 
stōn

▶noun
1 the hard, solid, nonmetallic mineral matter of which rock is made, especially as a building material: the houses are built of stone 
[as modifier] : high stone walls. 
• a small piece of rock found on the ground. 
• (in metaphorical use) weight or lack of feeling, expression, or movement: Isabel stood as if turned to stone 
her face became as hard as stone 
the elevator dropped like a stone. 
• Astronomy a meteorite made of rock, as opposed to metal. 
• Medicine a calculus; a gallstone or kidney stone.
2 a piece of stone shaped for a purpose, especially one of commemoration, ceremony, or demarcation: a memorial stone 
boundary stones. 
• a gem or jewel. 
• short for curling stone. 
• a round piece or counter, originally made of stone, used in various board games such as backgammon. 
• a large flat table or sheet, originally made of stone and later usually of metal, on which pages of type were made up.
3 a hard seed in a cherry, plum, peach, and some other fruits.
4 (plural same) British a unit of weight equal to
14 pounds (6.35 kg): I weighed
10 stone.
5 a natural shade of whitish-gray or brownish-gray: [as modifier] : stone stretch trousers. 
▶verb [with object]
1 throw stones at: policemen were stoned by the crowd.
2 remove the stone from (a fruit): halve, stone, and peel the avocados.
3 build, face, or pave with stone. 
PHRASES
be written (or engraved or set) in stone used to emphasize that something is fixed and unchangeable: anything can change—nothing is written in stone. cast (or throw) the first stone be the first to make an accusation (used to emphasize that a potential critic is not wholly blameless). [with biblical allusion to John 8:7.] leave no stone unturned try every possible course of action in order to achieve something. stone me! (or stone the crows!) British informal an exclamation of surprise or shock.a stone's throw a short distance: wild whales blowing a stone's throw from the boat.DERIVATIVES stoneless 
ˈstōnləs 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English stān (noun), of Germanic origin; related to Dutch steen and German Stein. The verb dates from Middle English (first recorded sense
1 of the noun).
