storm 
stôrm

▶noun
1 a violent disturbance of the atmosphere with strong winds and usually rain, thunder, lightning, or snow. 
• (also storm system) an intense low-pressure weather system; a cyclone. 
• a wind of force
10 on the Beaufort scale (48–55 knots or 55-63 mph). 
• a heavy discharge of missiles or blows: two men were taken by a storm of bullets.
2 [usually in singular] a tumultuous reaction; an uproar or controversy: the book caused a storm in South America 
she has been at the center of a storm concerning payments. 
• a violent or noisy outburst of a specified feeling or reaction: the disclosure raised a storm of protest.
3 (storms) North American storm windows.
4 a direct assault by troops on a fortified place. 
▶verb
1 [no object] move angrily or forcefully in a specified direction: she burst into tears and stormed off 
he stormed out of the house. 
• [with direct speech] shout (something) angrily; rage: “Don't patronize me!” she stormed. 
• move forcefully and decisively to a specified position in a game or contest: he barged past and stormed to the checkered flag.
2 [with object] (of troops) suddenly attack and capture (a building or other place) by means of force: Indian commandos stormed a hijacked plane early today 
(as noun storming) : the storming of the Bastille.
3 [no object] (of the weather) be violent, with strong winds and usually rain, thunder, lightning, or snow: when it stormed in the day, I shoveled the drive before Harry came home. 
PHRASES
go down a storm British be enthusiastically received by an audience. the calm (or lull) before the storm a period of unusual tranquility or stability that seems likely to presage difficult times. storm and stress another term for Sturm und Drang. a storm in a teacup British term for a tempest in a teapot (see tempest). take something by storm (of troops) capture a place by a sudden and violent attack. 
• have great and rapid success in a particular place or with a particular group of people: his first collection took the fashion world by storm. —— up a storm chiefly North American perform the specified action with great enthusiasm and energy: the band could really play up a storm.DERIVATIVES stormproof 
ˈstôrmˌpro͞of 
adjectiveORIGIN Old English, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch storm and German Sturm, probably also to the verb stir1. The verb dates from late Middle English in sense
3 of the verb .
