stress 
stres

▶noun
1 pressure or tension exerted on a material object: the distribution of stress is uniform across the bar. 
• the degree of pressure exerted on a material object measured in units of force per unit area.
2 a state of mental or emotional strain or tension resulting from adverse or very demanding circumstances: he's obviously under a lot of stress 
[in combination] : stress-related illnesses. 
• something that causes mental strain: the stresses and strains of public life.
3 particular emphasis or importance: he has started to lay greater stress on the government's role in industry. 
• emphasis given to a particular syllable or word in speech, typically through a combination of relatively greater loudness, higher pitch, and longer duration: normally, the stress falls on the first syllable. 
▶verb
1 [reporting verb] give particular emphasis or importance to (a point, statement, or idea) made in speech or writing: [with object] : they stressed the need for reform 
[with clause] : she was anxious to stress that her daughter's safety was her only concern 
[with direct speech] : “I want it done very, very neatly,” she stressed. 
• [with object] give emphasis to (a syllable or word) when pronouncing it.
2 [with object] subject to pressure or tension: this type of workout does stress the shoulder and knee joints.
3 [with object] cause mental or emotional strain or tension in: I avoid many of the things that used to stress me before 
(as adjective stressed) : she should see a doctor if she is feeling particularly stressed out. 
• [no object] informal become tense or anxious; worry: don't stress—there's plenty of time to get a grip on the situation. DERIVATIVES stressless 
ˈstresləs 
adjective. stressor 
-ər 
noun stress ( sense
2 of the verb, sense
3 of the verb) ORIGIN Middle English (denoting hardship or force exerted on a person for the purpose of compulsion): shortening of distress, or partly from Old French estresse ‘narrowness, oppression,’ based on Latin strictus ‘drawn tight’ (see strict) .
