swing 
▶verb
1 the sign swung in the wind: sway, oscillate, move back and forth, move to and fro, wave, wag, rock, flutter, flap.
2 Helen swung the bottle: brandish, wave, flourish, wield, shake, wag, twirl.
3 this road swings off to the north: curve, bend, veer, turn, bear, wind, twist, deviate, slew, skew, drift, head.
4 the balance swung from one party to the other: change, fluctuate, shift, alter, oscillate, waver, alternate, seesaw, yo-yo, vary.
5 informal if we keep trying, we can swing this deal: accomplish, achieve, obtain, acquire, get, secure, net, win, attain, bag, hook; informal wangle, land.
▶noun
1 a swing of the pendulum: oscillation, sway, wave.
2 a swing to the New Democrats in this constituency: change, move; turnaround, turnabout, reversal, about face, volte face, change of heart, U-turn, sea change.
3 a swing toward plain food: trend, tendency, drift, movement.
4 a mood swing: fluctuation, change, shift, variation, oscillation.REFLECTIONS David Thomsonswing Does the baby really want it, or is it the parents’ delight?—that lulling back and forth that extends from cradle to hammock and an arm-held lullaby (“rock me, baby”)? Put the child on a playground swing and you discover a great mystery: some say they need to be pushed, to feel the flat hand on the back urging them higher. But some kids just know how to work the thing themselves and can swing forever by just shifting their weight and pull-power. And so in manhood, there are those—like Lester Young—who are largely inept in life, but cannot put notes together without the delayed rhythmic pulse surging in our heads. And then there are those who go to school and labor at it, analyse and metronome it, but are as swinglessly still as Richard Nixon. The aristocracy has always known: it was a Duke who said “It don’t mean a thing if it ain’t got that swing.”Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
