tear
1 
ter

▶verb (past tore 
tôr
; past participle torn 
tôrn
)
1 [with object] pull or rip (something) apart or to pieces with force: I tore up the letter. 
• remove by pulling or ripping forcefully: he tore up the floorboards 
he tore off his belt 
Joe tore the sack from her hand. 
• make a hole or split in (something) by pulling it or piercing it with a sharp implement: she was always tearing her clothes. 
• make (a hole or split) in something by force: the blast tore a hole in the wall. 
• [no object] come apart; rip: the material wouldn't tear. 
• damage (a muscle or ligament) by overstretching it: he tore a ligament playing squash.
2 [no object] informal move very quickly, typically in a reckless or excited manner: she tore along the footpath on her bike.
3 (be torn) be in a state of uncertainty between two conflicting options or parties: he was torn between his duty and his better instincts. 
▶noun
1 a hole or split in something caused by it having been pulled apart forcefully.
2 US informal a spell of great success or excellence in performance: he went on a tear, winning three out of every four hands. 
• US informal a brief spell of erratic behavior; a binge or spree: every so often she goes on a tear, walking around town and zapping people with orange spray paint. 
PHRASES
tear one's hair out informal act with or show extreme desperation. that's torn it British informal used to express dismay when something unfortunate has happened to disrupt someone's plans: a friend of her father's arrived. “That's torn it,” she said.PHRASAL VERBS tear someone/something apart
1 destroy something, especially good relations between people: a bloody civil war had torn the country apart.
2 upset someone greatly: stop crying—it's tearing me apart.
3 criticize someone or something harshly. tear oneself away [often with negative] leave despite a strong desire to stay: she couldn't tear herself away from the view. tear someone/something down
1 demolish something, especially a building.
2 US informal criticize or punish someone severely. tear into
1 attack verbally: she tore into him: “Don't you realize what you've done to me?”
2 make an energetic or enthusiastic start on: a jazz trio is tearing into the tune with gusto.DERIVATIVES tearable adjective. tearer 
ˈterər 
nounORIGIN Old English teran, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch teren and German zehren, from an Indo-European root shared by Greek derein ‘flay.’ The noun dates from the early 17th century.
