that 
T͟Hat T͟Hət

▶pronoun (plural those 
T͟Hōz
)
1 used to identify a specific person or thing observed by the speaker: that's his wife over there. 
• referring to the more distant of two things near to the speaker (the other, if specified, being identified by “this”): this is stronger than that.
2 referring to a specific thing previously mentioned, known, or understood: that's a good idea 
what are we going to do about that?
3 [often with clause] used in singling out someone or something and ascribing a distinctive feature to them: it is part of human nature to be attracted to that which is aesthetically pleasing 
his appearance was that of an undergrown man 
they care about the rights of those less privileged than themselves.
4 (plural that) [relative pronoun] used to introduce a defining or restrictive clause, especially one essential to identification. 
• instead of “which,” “who,” or “whom”: the book that I've just written. 
• instead of “when” after an expression of time: the year that Anna was born. 
▶det. (plural those)
1 used to identify a specific person or thing observed or heard by the speaker: look at that man there 
how much are those brushes? 
• referring to the more distant of two things near to the speaker (the other, if specified, being identified by “this”).
2 referring to a specific thing previously mentioned, known, or understood: he lived in Mysore at that time 
seven people died in that incident.
3 [usually with clause] used in singling out someone or something and ascribing a distinctive feature to them: I have always envied those people who make their own bread.
4 referring to a specific person or thing assumed as understood or familiar to the person being addressed: where is that son of yours? 
I let him spend all that money on me 
Dad got that hunted look. 
▶adverb [as submodifier] to such a degree; so: I would not go that far. 
• used with a gesture to indicate size: it was that big, perhaps even bigger. 
• [with negative] informal very: he wasn't that far away. 
▶conjunction
1 introducing a subordinate clause expressing a statement or hypothesis: she said that she was satisfied 
it is possible that we have misunderstood. 
• expressing a reason or cause: he seemed pleased that I wanted to continue. 
• expressing a result: she was so tired that she couldn't think. 
• [usually with modal] expressing a purpose, hope, or intention: we pray that the coming year may be a year of peace 
I eat that I may live.
2 [usually with modal] literary expressing a wish or regret: oh that he could be restored to health. 
PHRASES
and all that informal and that sort of thing; and so on: other people depend on them for food and clothing and all that.at that see at1. like that
1 of that nature or in that manner: we need more people like that 
don't talk like that.
2 informal with no preparation or introduction; instantly or effortlessly: he can't just leave like that. not all that —— not very ——: it was not all that long ago. that is (or that is to say) used to introduce or follow a clarification, interpretation, or correction of something already said: androcentric—that is to say, male-dominated—concepts 
He was a long-haired kid with freckles. Last time I saw him, that is.that said even so (introducing a concessive statement): It's just a gimmick. That said, I'd love to do it. that's it see it1. that's that there is nothing more to do or say about the matter. —— that was as the specified person or thing was formerly known: General Dunstaple had married Miss Hughes that was. that will do no more is needed or desirable.ORIGIN Old English thæt, nominative and accusative singular neuter of se ‘the,’ of Germanic origin; related to Dutch dat and German das . usage:
1 The word that can be omitted in standard English where it introduces a subordinate clause, as in she said (that) she was satisfied. That can also be dropped in a relative clause where it is the object of the clause, as in the book (that) I've just written. That, however, is obligatory when it is the subject of the relative clause, as in the company that employs Jack.
2 It is sometimes argued that, in relative clauses, that should be used for nonhuman references and who should be used for human references: a house that overlooks the park, but the woman who lives next door. In practice, while it is true to say that who is restricted to human references, the function of that is flexible. It has been used for both human and nonhuman references since at least the 11th century. In standard English, it is interchangeable with who in this context.
3 Is there any difference between the use of that and which in sentences such as any book that gets children reading is worth having, and any book which gets children reading is worth having? The general rule is that, in restrictive relative clauses, where the relative clause serves to define or restrict the reference to the particular one described, that is the preferred relative pronoun. However, in nonrestrictive relative clauses, where the relative clause serves only to give additional information, which must be used: this book, which is set in the last century, is very popular with teenagers, but not this book, that is set in the last century, is very popular with teenagers. For more details, see usage at restrictive .
