there 
T͟Her

▶adverb
1 in, at, or to that place or position: we went on to Paris and stayed there eleven days 
[after preposition] : I'm not going in there—it's freezing 
figurative : the opportunity is right there in front of you. 
• used when pointing or gesturing to indicate the place in mind: there on the right 
if anyone wants out, there's the door! 
• at that point (in speech, performance, writing, etc.): “I'm quite—” There she stopped. 
• in that respect; on that issue: I don't agree with you there. 
• [with infinitive] used to indicate one's role in a particular situation: at the end of the day, we are there to make money.
2 used in attracting someone's attention or calling attention to someone or something: hello there! 
there goes the phone.
3 (usually there is/are) used to indicate the fact or existence of something: there's a restaurant around the corner 
there comes a point where you give up. 
▶exclam.
1 used to focus attention on something and express satisfaction or annoyance at it: there, I told you she wouldn't mind!
2 used to comfort someone: there, there, you must take all of this philosophically. 
PHRASES
been there, done that informal used to express past experience of or familiarity with something, especially something now regarded as boring or unwelcome. be there for be available to provide support or comfort for (someone). have been there before informal know all about a situation from experience. here and there see here. not all there (of a person) not fully alert and functioning: he's not all there—give him a couple of days to readjust. so there informal used to express one's defiance or awareness that someone will not like what one has decided or is saying: you can't share, so there! there and then immediately. there goes —— used to express the destruction or failure of something: there goes my career. there it is that is the situation: pretty ridiculous, I know, but there it is. there or thereabouts in or very near a particular place or position. 
• approximately: forty years, there or thereabouts, had elapsed. there you are (or go) informal
1 this is what you wanted: there you are—that'll be $3.80 please.
2 expressing confirmation, triumph, or resignation: there you are! I told you the problem was a political one 
sometimes it is embarrassing, but there you go.there you go again used to criticize someone for behaving in a way that is typical of them. there you have it used to emphasize or draw attention to a particular fact: so there you have it—the ultimate grand unified theory. 
• used to draw attention to the simplicity of a process or action: simply turn the handle three times and there you have it.ORIGIN Old English thǣr, thēr, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch daar and German da, also to that and the . usage: On the differences between their, they're, and there, see usage at they .
