tick
1 
tik

▶noun
1 a regular short, sharp sound, especially that made by a clock or watch. 
• British informal a moment (used especially to reassure someone that one will return or be ready very soon): I'll be with you in a tick.
2 chiefly British a check mark.
3 Stock Market the smallest recognized amount by which a price of a security or future may fluctuate. 
▶verb
1 [no object] (of a clock or other mechanical device) make regular short sharp sounds, typically one for every second of time that passes: I could hear the clock ticking. 
• (tick away/by/past) (of time) pass (used especially when someone is pressed for time or keenly awaiting an event): the minutes were ticking away till the actor's appearance. 
• [with object] (tick something away) (of a clock or watch) mark the passing of time with regular short sharp sounds: the little clock ticked the precious minutes away. 
• proceed or progress: her book was ticking along nicely.
2 [with object] chiefly British mark (an item) with a tick or select (a box) on a form, questionnaire, etc., to indicate that something has been chosen, checked, approved, or dealt with: just tick the appropriate box below. 
PHRASES
what makes someone tick informal what motivates someone: people are curious to know what makes these men tick.PHRASAL VERBS tick someone off
1 North American informal make someone annoyed or angry.
2 British informal reprimand or rebuke someone: he was ticked off by Angela 
(as noun ticking off) : he got a ticking off from the boss. tick something off chiefly British
1 mark an item in a list with a tick to show that it has been dealt with: I ticked several items off my “to do” list.
2 list items one by one in one's mind or during a speech: he ticked the points off on his fingers. tick over (of an engine) idle. 
• work or function at a basic or minimum level: they are keeping things ticking over until their father returns.ORIGIN Middle English (as a verb in the sense ‘pat, touch’): probably of Germanic origin and related to Dutch tik (noun), tikken (verb) ‘pat, touch.’ The noun was recorded in late Middle English as ‘a light tap’; current senses date from the late 17th century.
