touch 
▶verb
1 his shoes were touching the end of the bed: be in contact with, come into contact with, meet, join, connect with, converge with, be contiguous with, be against.
2 he touched her cheek: press lightly, tap, pat; feel, stroke, fondle, caress, pet; brush, graze, put a hand to.
3 nobody can touch her when she's on her game: compare with, rival, compete with, come/get close to, be on a par with, equal, match, be a match for, be in the same class/league as, measure up to; better, beat; informal hold a candle to.
4 you're not supposed to touch the computer: handle, hold, pick up, move; meddle with, play about with, fiddle with, interfere with, tamper with, disturb, lay a finger on; use, employ, make use of.
5 people whose lives have been touched by the recession: affect, impact, have an effect on, have an impact on, make a difference to, change.
6 years later she wrote to tell them how much their kindnesses had touched her: affect, move, tug at someone's heartstrings; leave an impression on, have an effect on.
▶noun
1 he felt her touch on his shoulder: tap, pat; stroke, caress; brush, graze; hand.
2 his political touch: skill, skillfulness, expertise, dexterity, deftness, adroitness, adeptness, ability, talent, flair, facility, proficiency, mastery, knack, technique, approach, style.
3 a touch of sadness: trace, bit, grain, hint, suggestion, suspicion, scintilla, tinge, overtone, undertone, note; dash, taste, drop, dab, dribble, pinch, speck, soupçon.
4 the oil lamps are a nice touch: detail, feature, point; addition, accessory.
5 have you been in touch with him? contact, communication, correspondence; connection, association, interaction.
PHRASES
touch down the plane is expected to touch down in San Juan: land, alight, come down, put down, arrive. touch off the action touched off a string of protests: cause, spark, trigger, start, set in motion, ignite, stir up, provoke, give rise to, lead to, generate, set off. touch on/upon his speech is sure to touch on the subject of school vouchers: refer to, mention, comment on, speak on, remark on, bring up, raise, broach, allude to; cover, deal with. touch something up
1 these paints are handy for touching up small areas: repaint, retouch, patch, fix; renovate, refurbish, revamp.
2 the editor touched up my prose: improve, enhance, make better, refine, give the finishing touches to; informal tweak. 
WORD LINKS
touch tactile relating to the sense of touchWord Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.
