trick 
trik

▶noun
1 a cunning or skillful act or scheme intended to deceive or outwit someone: he's a double-dealer capable of any mean trick. 
• a mischievous practical joke: she thought Elaine was playing some trick on her. 
• a skillful act performed for entertainment or amusement: he did conjuring tricks for his daughters. 
• an illusion: I thought I saw a flicker of emotion, but it was probably a trick of the light. 
• a clever or particular way of doing something: the trick is to put one ski forward and kneel.
2 a peculiar or characteristic habit or mannerism: she had a trick of clipping off certain words and phrases.
3 (in bridge, whist, and similar card games) a sequence of cards forming a single round of play. One card is laid down by each player, the highest card being the winner.
4 informal a prostitute's client.
5 a sailor's turn at the helm, usually lasting for two or four hours. 
▶verb [with object]
1 deceive or outwit (someone) by being cunning or skillful: buyers can be tricked by savvy sellers. 
• (trick someone into) use deception to make someone do (something): he tricked her into parting with the money. 
• (trick someone out of) use deception to deprive someone of (something): the king was tricked out of his land.
2 Heraldry sketch (a coat of arms) in outline, with the colors indicated by letters or signs. 
▶adjective [attributive]
1 intended or used to deceive or mystify, or to create an illusion: a trick question.
2 North American liable to fail; defective: a trick knee. 
PHRASES
do the trick informal achieve the required result. every trick in the book informal every available method of achieving what one wants. how's tricks? informal used as a friendly greeting: “How's tricks in your neck of the woods?” not miss a trick see miss1. the oldest trick in the book a ruse so hackneyed that it should no longer deceive anyone. tricks of the trade special ingenious techniques used in a profession or craft, especially those that are little known by outsiders. turn a trick informal (of a prostitute) have a session with a client. up to one's (old) tricks informal misbehaving in a characteristic way.PHRASAL VERBS trick someone/something out (or up) (usually be tricked out) dress or decorate someone or something in an elaborate or showy way: a Marine tricked out in World War II kit and weaponry.DERIVATIVES tricker noun. trickish adjective ( dated)ORIGIN late Middle English (as a noun): from an Old French dialect variant of triche, from trichier ‘deceive,’ of unknown origin. Current senses of the verb date from the mid 16th century.
