trip
1 
trip

▶verb (trips, tripping, tripped)
1 [no object] catch one's foot on something and stumble or fall: he tripped over his cat 
she tripped up during the penultimate lap. 
• [with object] cause (someone) to do this: she shot out her foot to trip him up. 
• (trip up) make a mistake: taxpayers often trip up by not declaring taxable income. 
• [with object] (trip someone up) detect or expose someone in an error, blunder, or inconsistency: the man was determined to trip him up on his economics.
2 [no object] walk, run, or dance with quick light steps: they tripped up the terrace steps. 
• (of words) flow lightly and easily: a name that trips off the tongue 
the guest list tripped from her lips.
3 [with object] activate (a mechanism), especially by contact with a switch, catch, or other electrical device: an intruder trips the alarm. 
• [no object] (of part of an electric circuit) disconnect automatically as a safety measure: the plugs will trip as soon as any change in current is detected.
4 [with object] Nautical release and raise (an anchor) from the seabed by means of a buoyed line attached to the anchor's crown. 
• turn (a yard or other object) from a horizontal to a vertical position for lowering.
5 [no object] informal experience hallucinations induced by taking a psychedelic drug, especially LSD: they prance around tripping out on their hallucinogens. 
• (be tripping) North American be behaving in an irrational or crazy way: you're tripping if you think I'm hanging around 
I would like to know if I'm the one who's trippin' or if it's him.
6 [no object] go on a short journey: when tripping through the Yukon, take some time to explore our museums. 
▶noun
1 an act of going to a place and returning; a journey or excursion, especially for pleasure: Sally's gone on a school trip 
a trip to the North Pole 
a quick trip to the store.
2 a stumble or fall due to catching one's foot on something. 
• archaic a mistake: an occasional trip in the performance.
3 informal a hallucinatory experience caused by taking a psychedelic drug, especially LSD: acid trips. 
• an exciting or stimulating experience: it was a trip seeing him again. 
• a self-indulgent attitude or activity: politics was a sixties trip.
4 a device that activates or disconnects a mechanism, circuit, etc.
5 archaic a light, lively movement of a person's feet: yonder comes Dalinda; I know her by her trip. 
PHRASES
trip the light fantastic humorous dance, in particular engage in ballroom dancing. [from “Trip it as you go 
On the light fantastic toe” (Milton's L'Allegro).]ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French triper, from Middle Dutch trippen ‘to skip, hop.’
