tune 
t(y)o͞on

▶noun a melody, especially one that characterizes a certain piece of music: she left the theater humming a cheerful tune. 
• informal a piece of popular music: DJ Samantha provided the tunes 
their 1995 hit has been resurrected into a modern-day classic dance tune. 
▶verb [with object]
1 adjust (a musical instrument) to the correct or uniform pitch: he tuned the harp for me.
2 adjust (a receiver circuit such as a radio or television) to the frequency of the required signal: the radio was tuned to the CBC 
[no object] : they tuned in to watch the game.
3 (often tune up) adjust (an engine) or balance (mechanical parts) so that a vehicle runs smoothly and efficiently: the suspension was tuned for a softer ride 
figurative : state officials have been tuning up an emergency plan.
4 adjust or adapt (something) to a particular purpose or situation: the animals are finely tuned to life in the desert. 
PHRASES
call the tune see call. change one's tune see change. in (or out of) tune with correct (or incorrect) pitch or intonation. 
• (of an engine or other machine) properly (or poorly) adjusted. 
• in (or not in) agreement or harmony: he was out of tune with conventional belief. to the tune of informal amounting to or involving (a specified considerable sum): he was in debt to the tune of forty thousand dollars.PHRASAL VERBS be tuned in informal be aware of, sensitive to, or able to understand something: it's important to be tuned in to your child's needs. tune into become sensitive to: you must tune into the needs of loved ones. tune out informal stop listening or paying attention. tune someone/something out not listen or pay attention to someone or something. tune something out exclude a sound or transmission of a particular frequency. tune up (of a musician) adjust one's instrument to the correct or uniform pitch: we could hear the band tuning up.DERIVATIVES tunable 
ˈt(y)o͞onəb(ə)l 
(also tuneable) adjectiveORIGIN late Middle English: unexplained alteration of tone. The verb is first recorded (late 15th century) in the sense ‘celebrate in music, sing.’
