turn 
▶verb
1 the wheels were still turning: go around, revolve, rotate, spin, roll, circle, wheel, whirl, twirl, gyrate, swivel, pivot.
2 I turned and headed back: change direction, change course, make a U-turn, about-face, turn around/about; informal pull a U-ey, do a one-eighty.
3 the car turned the corner: go around, round, negotiate, take.
4 the path turned to right and left: bend, curve, wind, veer, twist, meander, snake, zigzag.
5 he turned his gun on Lenny: aim at, point at, level at, direct at, train on.
6 he turned his ankle: sprain, twist, wrench; hurt.
7 their honeymoon turned into a nightmare: become, develop into, turn out to be; be transformed into, metamorphose into, descend into, grow into.
8 Emma turned red: become, go, grow, get.
9 he turned the house into apartments: convert, change, transform, make; adapt, modify, rebuild, reconstruct.
10 I've just turned forty: reach, get to, become, hit.
11 she turned to politics: take up, become involved in, go into, enter, undertake.
12 we can now turn to another topic: move on to, go on to, proceed to, consider, attend to, address; take up, switch to.
▶noun
1 a turn of the wheel: rotation, revolution, spin, whirl, gyration, swivel.
2 a turn to the left: change of direction, veer, divergence.
3 we're approaching the turn: bend, corner, turning, turnoff, junction, crossroads.
4 you'll get your turn in a minute: opportunity, chance, say; stint, time; try; informal go, shot, stab, crack.
5 she did me some good turns: service, deed, act; favor, kindness.
PHRASES
at every turn her name seemed to come up at every turn: repeatedly, recurrently, all the time, always, constantly, again and again. in turn let's consider these three points in turn: one after the other, one by one, one at a time, in succession, successively, sequentially. take a turn for the better his luck took a turn for the better: improve, pick up, look up, perk up, rally, turn the corner; recover, revive. take a turn for the worse even the doctors were surprised when Richie took a turn for the worse: deteriorate, worsen, decline; informal go downhill. turn against after his father died, Bruce turned against his stepmother: become hostile to, take a dislike to, betray, double-cross. turn away I know you're hurt, but please don't turn us away: send away, reject, rebuff, repel, cold-shoulder; informal send packing. turn back just before boarding the ferry, Clint changed his mind and turned back: retrace one's steps, go back, return; retreat. turn down
1 his novel was turned down: reject, refuse, decline, spurn, rebuff.
2 Pete turned the volume down: reduce, lower, decrease, lessen; muffle, mute. turn in
1 he turned in his brother to the police: betray, inform on, denounce, sell out, stab someone in the back; blow the whistle on, rat on, squeal on, finger.
2 we turned in the entrance forms just in time: hand in/over/back, give in, submit, surrender, give up; deliver, return.
3 I usually turn in before
10 o'clock: go to bed, retire, go to sleep, call it a day; informal hit the hay, hit the sack. turn of events she was unprepared for this turn of events: development, incident, occurrence, happening, circumstance, surprise. turn of phrase a clever turn of phrase: expression, idiom, phrase, term, word, aphorism. turn off
1 his so-called jokes really turn me off: put off, leave cold, repel, disgust, revolt, offend; disenchant, alienate; bore, gross out.
2 please turn off the garage lights: switch off, shut off, turn out; extinguish; deactivate; informal kill, cut, power down. turn on
1 the decision turned on the law: depend on, rest on, hinge on, be contingent on, be decided by.
2 okay, I admit it—his green eyes turn me on. See arouse (sense 3).
3 I'll turn on the generator: switch on, start up, activate, trip, power up.
4 it began as a simple disagreement, but then he turned on us like a mad dog: attack, set on, fall on, let fly at, lash out at, hit out at; informal lay into, tear into, let someone have it, bite someone's head off, jump down someone's throat; light into. turn on to Christie has turned me on to the health benefits of yoga: introduce someone to, get someone into, pique someone's interest in. turn out
1 a huge crowd turned out: come, be present, attend, appear, turn up, arrive; assemble, gather, show up.
2 it turned out that she had been abroad: transpire, emerge, come to light, become apparent, become clear.
3 things didn't turn out as I'd intended: happen, occur, come about; develop, proceed; work out, come out, end up, pan out, result; formal eventuate.
4 it's about time she turned out that bum of a boyfriend: throw out, eject, evict, expel, oust, drum out, banish; informal kick out, send packing, boot out, show someone the door.
5 turn out the light: switch off, shut off, turn off.
6 they turn out a million engines a year: produce, make, manufacture, fabricate, generate, put out, churn out. turn over
1 the crate fell off the back of the truck and turned over: overturn, upturn, capsize, keel over, flip, turn turtle, be upended, tip.
2 I turned over a few pages: flip over, flick through, leaf through.
3 she turned the proposal over in her mind: think about, think over, consider, ponder, contemplate, reflect on, chew over, mull over, muse on, ruminate on.
4 he turned over the business to his brother: transfer, hand over, pass on, consign, commit. turn someone's stomach the sight of blood turns my stomach: nauseate someone, sicken someone, make someone sick. turn to I always had my grandparents to turn to: seek help from, have recourse to, approach, apply to, appeal to; take to, resort to. turn up
1 the missing documents turned up: be found, be discovered, be located, reappear.
2 the police turned up: arrive, appear, present oneself, show up, show, show one's face.
3 something better will turn up: present itself, offer itself, occur, happen, crop up, appear.
4 she turned up the treble: increase, raise, amplify, intensify.
5 they turned up lots of information: discover, uncover, unearth, find, dig up, ferret out, root out, expose.
