up 
əp

▶adverb
1 toward the sky or a higher position: he jumped up 
two of the men hoisted her up 
the curtain went up. 
• upstairs: she made her way up to bed. 
• out of bed: Miranda hardly ever got up for breakfast 
he had been up for hours. 
• (of the sun) visible in the sky after daybreak: the sun was already up when they set off. 
• expressing movement toward or position in the north: I drove up to Detroit. 
• to or at a place perceived as higher: going for a walk up to the stores. 
• British toward or in the capital or a major city: give me a ring when you're up in London. 
• British at or to a university, especially Oxford or Cambridge: they were up at Cambridge about the same time. 
• (of food that has been eaten) regurgitated from the stomach: I was sick and vomited up everything. 
• [as exclamation] used as a command to a soldier or an animal to stand up and be ready to move or attack: up, boys, and at ῾em.
2 to the place where someone is: Dot didn't hear Mrs. Parvis come creeping up behind her.
3 at or to a higher level of intensity, volume, or activity: she turned the volume up 
liven up the graphics 

U. 
S.  environmental groups had been stepping up their attack on GAT
T.  
• at or to a higher price, value, or rank: sales are up 22.8 percent at $50.2 million 
unemployment is up and rising. 
• winning or at an advantage by a specified margin: there they were in the fourth quarter, up by
11 points 
we came away 300 bucks up on the evening.
4 into the desired or a proper condition: the mayor agreed to set up a committee. 
• so as to be finished or closed: I've got a bit of paperwork to finish up 
I zipped up my sweater.
5 into a happy mood: I don't think anything's going to cheer me up.
6 displayed on a bulletin board or other publicly visible site: he put up posters around the city.
7 (of sailing) against the current or the wind. 
• (of a ship's helm) moved so that the rudder is to leeward.
8 Baseball at bat: every time up, he had a different stance. 
▶preposition from a lower to a higher point on (something); upward along: she climbed up a flight of steps. 
• from one end to another of (a street or other area), not necessarily on an upward slope: bicycling up Pleasant Avenue toward Maywood Avenue 
walking up the street. 
• to a higher part of (a river or stream), away from the sea: a cruise up the Rhine. 
▶adjective
1 [attributive] directed or moving toward a higher place or position: the up escalator. 
• Physics denoting a flavor of quark having a charge of +2/3. Protons and neutrons are thought to be composed of combinations of up and down quarks.
2 [predicative] in a cheerful mood; ebullient: the mood here is resolutely up.
3 [predicative] (of a computer system or industrial process) functioning properly: the system is now up.
4 [predicative] at an end: his contract was up in three weeks 
time's up.
5 (of a jockey) in the saddle. 
▶noun informal a period of good fortune: you can't have ups all the time in football. 
▶verb (ups, upping, upped)
1 [no object] (up and do something) informal do something abruptly or boldly: she upped and left him.
2 [with object] cause (a level or amount) to be increased: capacity will be upped by 70 percent next year.
3 [with object] lift (something) up: everybody was cheering and upping their glasses. 
• [no object] (up with) West Indian & US informal raise or pick up (something): this woman ups with a stone. 
PHRASES
get it up vulgar slang have a penile erection. it is all up with informal it is the end of or there is no hope for (someone or something). on the up and up informal
1 chiefly North American honest or sincere.
2 British steadily improving or becoming more successful. something is up informal something unusual or undesirable is happening or afoot. up against close to or in contact with: crowds pressed up against the police barricades. 
• informal confronted with or opposed by: I began to think of what teachers are up against today. 
• (up against it) informal facing some serious but unspecified difficulty: they play better when they're up against it. up and about no longer in bed (after sleep or an illness). up and down
1 moving upward and downward: bouncing up and down.
2 to and fro: pacing up and down in front of her desk. 
• [as preposition] to and fro along: strolling up and down the corridor.
3 in various places throughout: in clubs up and down the country.
4 informal in varying states or moods; changeable: my relationship with her was up and down. up and running (especially of a computer system) in operation; functioning: the new computer is up and running. up the ante see ante. up before appearing for a hearing in the presence of: we'll have to come up before a magistrate. up for
1 available for: the house next door is up for sale.
2 being considered for: he had been up for promotion.
3 due for: his contract is up for renewal in June. up for it informal ready to take part in a particular activity: Nick wasn't really up for it. up hill and down dale all over the place: he led me up hill and down dale till my feet were dropping off. (well) up on (or in) well informed about: he was up on the latest methods. up to
1 as far as: I could reach just up to his waist. 
• (also up until) until: up to now I hadn't had a relationship.
2 indicating a maximum amount: the process is expected to take up to two years.
3 [with negative or in questions] as good as; good enough for: I was not up to her standards. 
• capable of or fit for: he is simply not up to the job.
4 the duty, responsibility, or choice of (someone): it was up to them to gauge the problem.
5 informal occupied or busy with: what's he been up to? up top British informal in the brain (with reference to intelligence): a man with nothing much up top. up with —— an exclamation expressing support for a stated person or thing. up yours (also up your ass) vulgar slang an exclamation expressing contemptuous defiance or rejection of someone. what's up? informal
1 what is going on?
2 what is the matter?: what's up with you?ORIGIN Old English up(p), uppe, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch op and German auf .
