wait 
wāt

▶verb [no object]
1 stay where one is or delay action until a particular time or until something else happens: he did not wait for a reply 
we're waiting for Allan to get back 
they will wait on a Supreme Court ruling 
[with infinitive] : Ben stood on the street corner waiting to cross 
[with object] : I had to wait my turn to play. 
• (wait for or on) stay where one is or delay action until (someone) arrives or is ready: he sits on the corner waiting for Mary 
she was waiting on her boyfriend. 
• remain in readiness for some purpose: he found the train waiting at the platform. 
• be left until a later time before being dealt with: we shall need a statement later, but that will have to wait. 
• [with object] informal defer (a meal) until a person's arrival: he will wait supper for me.
2 (cannot wait) used to indicate that one is eagerly impatient to do something or for something to happen: I can't wait for tomorrow 
[with infinitive] : I can't wait to get started again.
3 act as a waiter or waitress, serving food and drink: a local man was employed to wait on them at table 
[with object] : we had to wait tables in the mess hall. 
▶noun
1 [in singular] a period of waiting: we had a long wait.
2 (waits) British archaic street singers of Christmas carols. 
• historical official bands of musicians maintained by a city or town. 
PHRASES
wait and see wait to find out what will happen before doing or deciding something. you wait used to convey a threat, warning, or promise: just you wait till your father comes home!PHRASAL VERBS wait on (or upon)
1 act as an attendant to (someone): a maid was appointed to wait on her. 
• serve (a customer) in a store. 
• archaic pay a respectful visit to.
2 chiefly British await the convenience of: we can't wait on the government; we have to do it ourselves.wait up
1 not go to bed until someone arrives or something happens.
2 North American go more slowly or stop until someone catches up.ORIGIN Middle English: from Old Northern French waitier, of Germanic origin; related to wake1. Early senses included ‘lie in wait (for),’ ‘observe carefully,’ and ‘be watchful.’
