waste 
wāst

▶verb
1 [with object] use or expend carelessly, extravagantly, or to no purpose: we can't afford to waste electricity 
I don't use the car, so why should I waste precious money on it? 
• (usually be wasted on) bestow or expend on an unappreciative recipient: her small talk was wasted on this guest. 
• (usually be wasted) fail to make full or good use of: we're wasted in this job.
2 [no object] (of a person or a part of the body) become progressively weaker and more emaciated: she was dying of AIDS, visibly wasting away 
(as adjective wasting) : a wasting disease. 
• [with object] archaic cause to do this: these symptoms wasted the patients very much.
3 [with object] literary devastate or ruin (a place): he seized their cattle and wasted their country. 
• North American informal kill or severely injure (someone): I saw them waste the guy I worked for.
4 [no object] literary (of time) pass away; be spent: the years were wasting. 
▶adjective [attributive]
1 (of a material, substance, or byproduct) eliminated or discarded as no longer useful or required after the completion of a process: ensure that waste materials are disposed of responsibly 
plants produce oxygen as a waste product.
2 (of an area of land, typically in a city or town) not used, cultivated, or built on: a patch of waste ground. 
▶noun
1 an act or instance of using or expending something carelessly, extravagantly, or to no purpose: it's a waste of time trying to argue with him 
they had learned to avoid waste. 
• archaic the gradual loss or diminution of something: he was pale and weak from waste of blood.
2 material that is not wanted; the unusable remains or byproducts of something: bodily waste 
(wastes) : hazardous industrial wastes.
3 (usually wastes) a large area of barren, typically uninhabited land: the icy wastes of the Antarctic.
4 Law damage to an estate caused by an act or by neglect, especially by a life-tenant. 
PHRASES
go to waste be unused or expended to no purpose. lay waste to (or lay something (to) waste) completely destroy: a land laid waste by war.waste one's breath see breath. waste not, want not proverb if you use a commodity or resource carefully and without extravagance, you will never be in need. waste words see word. ORIGIN Middle English: from Old Northern French wast(e) (noun), waster (verb), based on Latin vastus ‘unoccupied, uncultivated’; compare with vast .
