while 
(h)wīl

▶noun
1 a period of time: we chatted for a while 
she retired a little while ago. 
• (a while) for some time: can I keep it a while?
2 (the while) at the same time; meanwhile: he starts to draw, talking the while. 
• literary during the time that: beseeching him, the while his hand she wrung. 
▶conjunction
1 during the time that; at the same time as: nothing much changed while he was away.
2 whereas (indicating a contrast): one person wants out, while the other wants the relationship to continue. 
• in spite of the fact that; although: while I wouldn't recommend a nighttime visit, by day the area is full of interest. 
▶rel. adverb during which: the period while the animal remains alive. 
▶verb [with object] (while something away) pass time in a leisurely manner: a diversion to while away the long afternoons. 
PHRASES
between whiles archaic at intervals: add potassium carbonate, shaking vigorously between whiles. worth one's while worth the time or effort spent.ORIGIN Old English hwīl ‘period of time,’ of Germanic origin; related to Dutch wijl,German Weile; the conjunction is an abbreviation of Old English thā hwīle the ‘the while that.’ usage:
1 While is sometimes used, without causing any misunderstandings, in the sense of whereas (‘although,’ ‘by contrast,’ ‘in comparison with the fact that’). This usage is frowned on by some traditionalists, but while is sometimes preferable, as in contexts in which whereas might sound inappropriately formal: while you say you like her, you've never stood up for her. Whereas is preferable, however, for preventing ambiguity in contexts in which while might be read as referring to time, or might falsely suggest simultaneity: whereas Burton promised to begin at once, he was delayed nine months for lack of funding; whereas Jonas was an excellent planter and cultivator, Julius was a master harvester.
2 On the distinction between awhile and a while, see usage at awhile.3 On the distinction between worth while and worthwhile, see usage at worthwhile .
