with 
wiT͟H wiTH

▶preposition
1 accompanied by (another person or thing): a nice steak with a bottle of red wine. 
• in the same direction as: marine mammals generally swim with the current. 
• along with (with reference to time): wisdom comes with age. 
• in proportion to: the form of the light curve changes with period in a systematic way.
2 possessing (something) as a feature or accompaniment: a flower-sprigged blouse with a white collar. 
• marked by or wearing: a tall dark man with a scar on one cheek 
a small man with thick glasses.
3 indicating the instrument used to perform an action: cut it with a knife 
treatment with acid before analysis. 
• indicating the material used for some purpose: fill the bowl with water.
4 in opposition to: we started fighting with each other.
5 indicating the manner or attitude of the person doing something: with great reluctance.
6 indicating responsibility: leave it with me.
7 in relation to: my father will be angry with me.
8 employed by: she's with IBM now. 
• as a member or employee of: he plays with the Cincinnati Cyclones. 
• using the services of: I bank with the TS
B. 
9 affected by (a particular fact or condition): with no hope 
in bed with lumbago. 
• indicating the cause of an action or condition: trembling with fear 
the paper was yellow with age.
10 indicating separation or removal from something: to part with one's dearest possessions 
their jobs could be dispensed with. 
PHRASES
away (or off or out, etc.) with used in exhortations to take or send someone or something away, in, out, etc.: off with his head 
away with poverty! be with someone
1 agree with or support someone: we're all with you on this one.
2 informal follow someone's meaning: I'm not with you. with it
1 knowledgeable about and following modern ideas and fashions: a young, with-it film buyer.
2 [usually with negative] alert and comprehending: I'm not really with it this morning. with that at that point; immediately after saying or doing something dramatic: with that, she flounced out of the room.ORIGIN Old English, probably a shortening of a Germanic preposition related to obsolete English wither ‘adverse, opposite.’
