work 
▶noun
1 a day's work in the fields: labor, toil, slog, drudgery, exertion, effort, industry, service; informal grind, sweat, elbow grease; literary travail. ANTONYMS leisure, rest.
2 I'm looking for work: employment, a job, a position, a situation, a post; an occupation, a profession, a career, a vocation, a calling; wage labor; tasks, jobs, duties, assignments, projects; chores. ANTONYMS unemployment, retirement.
3 works of literature: composition, piece, creation; opus, oeuvre.
4 (works) the complete works of Shakespeare: writings, oeuvre, canon, output.
5 this is the work of a radical faction: handiwork, doing, act, deed.
6 (works) a lifetime spent doing good works: deeds, acts, actions.
7 informal (the works) for only $60 you can get the works: everything, the full treatment; informal the lot, the whole shebang, the full nine yards, the whole kit and kaboodle, the whole ball of wax.
▶verb
1 staff worked late into the night: toil, labor, exert oneself, slave (away); keep at it, put one's nose to the grindstone; informal slog (away), plug away, put one's back into it, knock oneself out, sweat blood; literary travail. ANTONYMS rest, play.
2 he worked in education for years: be employed, have a job, earn one's living, do business.
3 farmers worked the land: cultivate, farm, till, plow.
4 his car was working perfectly: function, go, run, operate; informal behave.
5 how do I work this machine? operate, use, handle, control, manipulate, run.
6 their ploy worked: succeed, work out, turn out well, go as planned, get results, be effective; informal come off, pay off, do/turn the trick. ANTONYMS fail.
7 makeup can work miracles: bring about, accomplish, achieve, produce, perform, create, engender, contrive, effect.
8 informal can you work it so I can get in for free? arrange it/things, manipulate it/things, contrive it; pull strings, fix it, swing it, wangle it.
9 he worked the crowd into a frenzy: stir (up), excite, drive, move, rouse, fire, galvanize; whip up, agitate.
10 work the mixture into a paste: knead, squeeze, form; mix, stir, blend.
11 he worked the blade into the padlock: maneuver, manipulate, guide, edge.
12 her mouth worked furiously: twitch, quiver, convulse.
13 he worked his way through the crowd: maneuver, make, thread, wind, weave, wend.
PHRASES
work on leave Hank to me—I'll work on him: persuade, manipulate, influence; coax, cajole, wheedle, soften up, sweet-talk; informal twist someone's arm, lean on. work out
1 the bill works out to $50: amount to, add up to, come to, total.
2 my idea worked out. See work (sense
6 of the verb).
3 things didn't work out the way she planned: end up, turn out, go, come out, develop; happen, occur; informal pan out.
4 he works out at the local gym: exercise, train.
5 work out what you can afford: calculate, compute, determine, reckon (up).
6 I'm trying to work out what she meant: understand, comprehend, sort out, make sense of, get to the bottom of, make head(s) or tail(s) of, unravel, decipher, decode, puzzle out; informal figure out.
7 they worked out a plan: devise, formulate, draw up, put together, develop, construct, arrange, organize, contrive, concoct; hammer out, negotiate. work up he couldn't work up any enthusiasm: stimulate, rouse, raise, arouse, awaken, excite. CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD See labor .These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
