about 
BrE əˈbaʊt, AmE əˈbaʊt 

A.  preposition 
① (concerning, regarding) 关于 guānyú a book/film about [something] 有关某内容的书/电影 I'm ringing about my results 我打电话来问一下我的检查结果 what was all that about? 这到底是怎么回事？ 
② (bound up with) 为了 wèile business is about making profits 做生意就是为了赢利 
③ (in the nature of) 在…的特征中 zài… de tèzhēng zhōng what I like about her is her frankness 我喜欢她的地方是她的直率 there's something odd about him 他这人有点怪 there's something about the place that intrigues me 这地方总有什么东西让我着迷 
④ (occupied with) 从事于 cóngshì yú to know what one is about 明白自己在做什么 while you're about it 趁着你干这件事的时候 (and) be quick about it! 快点干完！ 
⑤ especially BrE (in many directions within, in many parts of) 在…各处 zài… gè chù we wandered about the town all afternoon 我们整个下午都在城里四处游逛 he looked anxiously about the room 他在房间里焦急地四下察看 
⑥ (in invitations, suggestions, when soliciting opinions) [用于邀请、建议、询问]what/how about [somebody]/[something]?; 某人/某事物怎么样/如何？ how about a drink? 来一杯怎么样？ what about going into town? 进城去好吗？ how about you? 你呢？ 
⑦ (with) 在…身上 zài… shēn shang he said he had no money about him 他说他没带钱 to have drugs/weapons about one's person 身上藏有毒品/武器 
⑧ BrE (surrounding) 围绕着 wéiràozhe ; (on either side of) 在…两侧 zài… liǎng cè there were trees about the house 屋子四周绿树环绕 
B.  adverb 
① (approximately) 大约 dàyuē at about
6 p.m. 下午6点左右 (and) about time too! 再说正是时候呢！ that's about it (that's all) 就是这些 (that's the situation) 就是这样 as far as I know, that's about it 据我所知，就这么回事 
② (almost) 几乎 jīhū we're about ready 我们差不多准备好了 I've had just about enough 我差不多吃饱了 
③ especially BrE (within area) 在四周 zài sìzhōu I had difficulty finding my way about 我不知该怎么走 there was no one about 附近没有人 
④ especially BrE (in circulation) 存在着 cúnzàizhe there was a lot of flu about 那时流感正在肆虐 
⑤ especially BrE (indicating reverse position) 向相反方向 xiàng xiāngfǎn fāngxiàng it's the wrong way about 方向搞反了 
C.  adjective 
① (expressing future intention) 刚要…的 gāng yào… de we're (just) about to start 我们正要开始 
② (awake and out of bed) 活动中的 huódòng zhòng de to be up and about ［睡醒或病愈后] 起来四处走动 you were up and about early this morning 你今天早晨起来得很早嘛 
③ (rejecting course of action) 愿意 yuànyì I'm not about to tell him 我不想告诉他 
