back 
▶noun
1 she's broken her back: spine, backbone, spinal column, vertebral column.
2 the back of the house: rear, rear side, other side; Nautical stern. ANTONYMS front.
3 the back of the line: end, tail end, rear end, rear, tail, tag end. ANTONYMS front, head.
4 the back of a postcard: reverse, other side, underside; verso; informal flip side. ANTONYMS front, face.
▶adverb
1 he pushed his chair back: backward, behind one, to one's rear, rearward; away, off. ANTONYMS forward.
2 a few months back: ago, earlier, previously, before, in the past.
▶verb
1 the government backed the initiative with $4 million: sponsor, finance, put up the money for, fund, subsidize, underwrite, be a patron of, act as guarantor of; informal foot the bill for, pick up the tab for; bankroll, stake.
2 most people backed the idea: support, endorse, sanction, approve of, give one's blessing to, smile on, favor, advocate, promote, uphold, champion; vote for, ally oneself with, stand behind, stick by, side with, be on the side of, defend, take up the cudgels for; second; informal throw one's weight behind. ANTONYMS oppose.
3 he backed the horse at 33–1: bet on, gamble on, stake money on.
4 he backed out of the garage: reverse, draw back, step back, move backward, back off, pull back, retreat, withdraw, give ground, backtrack, retrace one's steps, recede. ANTONYMS move forward, advance.
▶adjective
1 the back seats: rear, rearmost, backmost, hind, hindmost, hinder, posterior. ANTONYMS front.
2 a back copy: past, old, previous, earlier, former, out of date. ANTONYMS future.
PHRASES
back away there's no need to back away—he's a very gentle dog: draw back, step back, move away, withdraw, retreat, pull back, give ground; shrink back, cower, quail, quake. back down all your begging is useless because I am not going to back down: give in, concede defeat, surrender, yield, submit, climb down, concede, reconsider; backtrack, backpedal. back out of Charlie's backed out of the original agreement: renege on, go back on, withdraw from, pull out of, retreat from, fail to honor, abandon, default on, repudiate, backpedal on. back someone up I was surprised when it turned out to be Dina who backed me up: support, stand by, give one's support to, side with, be on someone's side, take someone's side, take someone's part; vouch for. back something up can you back up that statement with any real evidence? substantiate, corroborate, confirm, support, bear out, endorse, bolster, reinforce, lend weight to. behind someone's back the takeover was planned behind the plant manager's back: secretly, without someone's knowledge, on the sly, slyly, sneakily, covertly, surreptitiously, furtively. 
WORD LINKS
back dorsal , lumbar relating to the back supine lying on your backWord Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.
