beat 
▶verb
1 they were beaten with truncheons: hit, strike, batter, thump, bang, hammer, punch, knock, thrash, pound, pummel, slap, smack, rain blows on; assault, attack, abuse; cudgel, club, birch; informal wallop, belt, whup, bash, whack, thwack, clout, clobber, slug, tan, bop, sock, deck, plug, beat the living daylights out of; dated chastise.
2 the waves beat upon the shore: break on/upon/against, dash against; lash against, strike, lap (upon), wash against; splash on/upon/against, roll upon; literary plash upon/against, lave against.
3 the metal is beaten into a die: hammer, forge, form, shape, mold, work, stamp, fashion, model.
4 her heart was still beating: pulsate, pulse, palpitate, vibrate, throb; pump, pound, thump, thud, hammer, drum; pitter-patter.
5 the eagle beat its wings: flap, flutter, thresh, thrash, wave, vibrate, oscillate.
6 beat the cream into the mixture: whisk, mix, blend, whip.
7 she beat a path through the grass: tread, tramp, trample, wear, flatten, press down.
8 the team they need to beat: defeat, conquer, win against, get the better of, vanquish, trounce, rout, overpower, overcome, subdue; informal lick, thrash, whip, wipe the floor with, clobber, cream, shellac, skunk.
9 he beat the record: surpass, exceed, better, improve on, go one better than, eclipse, transcend, top, trump, cap.
▶noun
1 the song has a good beat: rhythm, pulse, meter, time, measure, cadence; stress, accent.
2 the beat of hooves: pounding, banging, thumping, thudding, booming, hammering, battering, crashing.
3 the beat of her heart: pulse, pulsating, vibration, throb, palpitation, reverberation; pounding, thump, thud, hammering, drumming; pitter-patter.
4 a cop on his beat: circuit, round, route, way, path.
▶adjective informal phew, I'm beat! See exhausted (sense 1). 
PHRASES
beat a (hasty) retreat See retreat (sense
1 of the verb). beat it informal See run (sense
2 of the verb). beat someone up he just snapped and started beating up his father: assault, attack, mug, thrash, do over, work over, rough up, lay into, lace into, sail into, beat the living daylights out of, let someone have it, beat up on, knock around/about.
