best 
▶adjective
1 the best hotel in Rhode Island: finest, greatest, top, foremost, leading, preeminent, premier, prime, first, chief, principal, supreme, of the highest quality, superlative, par excellence, unrivaled, second to none, without equal, nonpareil, unsurpassed, peerless, matchless, unparalleled, unbeaten, unbeatable, optimum, optimal, ultimate, incomparable, ideal, perfect; highest, record-breaking; informal star, number-one, a cut above the rest, top-drawer, the Cadillac of, the Rolls-Royce of. ANTONYMS worst.
2 do whatever you think best: most advantageous, most useful, most suitable, most fitting, most appropriate; most prudent, most sensible, most advisable.
▶adverb
1 the best-dressed man: to the highest standard, in the best way. ANTONYMS worst.
2 the food he liked best: most, to the highest/greatest degree. ANTONYMS least.
3 this is best done at home: most advantageously, most usefully, most suitably, most fittingly, most appropriately; most sensibly, most prudently, most wisely; better.
▶noun
1 only the best will do: finest, choicest, top, cream, choice, prime, elite, crème de la crème, flower, jewel in the crown, nonpareil; informal tops, pick of the bunch.
2 she dressed in her best: best clothes, finery, Sunday best; informal glad rags.
3 give her my best: best wishes, regards, kind/kindest regards, greetings, compliments, felicitations, respects; love.
▶verb informal she was not to be bested: defeat, beat, get the better of, outdo, outwit, outsmart, worst, be more than a match for, prevail over, vanquish, trounce, triumph over; surpass, outclass, outshine, put someone in the shade, overshadow, eclipse; informal lick.
PHRASES
do one's best we'll do our best to make sure you get a good education: do one's utmost, try one's hardest, make every effort, do all one can, give one's all; informal bend over backwards, do one's damnedest, go all out, pull out all the stops, bust a gut, break one's neck, move heaven and earth, bring one's A game, play one's A game. had best you had best look elsewhere: ought to, should.
