break 
▶verb
1 the mirror broke: shatter, smash, crack, snap, fracture, fragment, splinter, fall to bits, fall to pieces; split, burst; informal bust.
2 she had broken her leg: fracture, crack. ANTONYMS mend.
3 the bite had barely broken the skin: pierce, puncture, penetrate, perforate; cut.
4 the coffee machine has broken: stop working, break down, give out, go wrong, malfunction, crash; informal go kaput, conk out, go/be on the blink, go/be on the fritz, give up the ghost.
5 traders who break the law: contravene, violate, fail to observe, fail to comply with, infringe, breach; defy, flout, disobey, fly in the face of. ANTONYMS abide by, keep.
6 his concentration was broken: interrupt, disturb, interfere with.
7 they broke for coffee: stop, pause, have a rest, recess; informal take a breather, take five. ANTONYMS resume.
8 a pile of carpets broke his fall: cushion, soften the impact of, take the edge off.
9 the movie broke box-office records: exceed, surpass, beat, better, cap, top, outdo, outstrip, eclipse.
10 habits are difficult to break: give up, relinquish, drop; informal kick, shake, quit.
11 the strategies used to break the union: destroy, crush, quash, defeat, vanquish, overcome, overpower, overwhelm, suppress, cripple; weaken, subdue, cow, undermine.
12 her self-control finally broke: give way, crack, cave in, yield, go to pieces.
13 four thousand dollars wouldn't break him: bankrupt, ruin, pauperize.
14 he tried to break the news gently: reveal, disclose, divulge, impart, tell; announce, release.
15 he broke the encryption code: decipher, decode, decrypt, unravel, work out; informal figure out, crack.
16 the day broke fair and cloudless: dawn, begin, start, emerge, appear.
17 a political scandal broke: erupt, break out.
18 the weather broke: change, alter, shift.
19 waves broke against the rocks: crash, dash, beat, pound, lash.
20 her voice broke as she relived the experience: falter, quaver, quiver, tremble, shake.
▶noun
1 the magazine has been published without a break since 1950: interruption, interval, gap, hiatus; discontinuation, suspension, disruption, cutoff; stop, stoppage, cessation.
2 a break in the weather: change, alteration, variation.
3 let's have a break: rest, respite, recess; stop, pause; interval, intermission; informal breather, time out, down time; coffee break.
4 a weekend break: time off, vacation, holiday, leave, spring break; informal getaway, staycation.
5 a break in diplomatic relations: rift, schism, split, breakup, severance, rupture.
6 the actress got her first break in 1951: opportunity, chance, opening.
PHRASES
break away
1 she attempted to break away: escape, get away, run away, flee, make off; break free, break loose, get out of someone's clutches; informal cut and run.
2 a group broke away from the main party: leave, secede from, split off from, separate from, part company with, defect from; Politics cross the floor from. break down
1 his van broke down. See break (sense
4 of the verb).
2 pay negotiations broke down: fail, collapse, founder, fall through, disintegrate; informal fizzle out.
3 Vicky broke down, sobbing loudly: burst into tears; lose control, be overcome, go to pieces, crumble, disintegrate; informal crack up, lose it. break something down
1 the police broke the door down: knock down, kick down, smash in, pull down, tear down, demolish.
2 break big tasks down into smaller parts: divide, separate.
3 graphs show how the information can be broken down: analyze, categorize, classify, sort out, itemize, organize; dissect. break in
1 thieves broke in and took her checkbook: commit burglary, break and enter; force one's way in.
2 “I don't want to interfere,” Mrs. Hendry broke in: interrupt, butt in, cut in, interject, interpose, intervene, chime in. break someone in it's Edgar's responsibility to break in the new cooks: train, initiate; informal show someone the ropes. break into
1 thieves broke into a house on Park Street: burgle, burglarize, rob; force one's way into.
2 Phil broke into the discussion: interrupt, butt into, cut in on, intervene in.
3 he broke into a song: burst into, launch into. break off the cup handle just broke off: snap off, come off, become detached, become separated. break something off
1 I broke off a branch from the tree: snap off, pull off, sever, detach.
2 they threatened to break off diplomatic relations: end, terminate, stop, cease, call a halt to, finish, dissolve; suspend, discontinue; informal pull the plug on. break out
1 he broke out of the detention center: escape from, abscond from, flee from; get free of.
2 fighting broke out: flare up, start suddenly, erupt, burst out. break up
1 the meeting broke up: end, finish, stop, terminate; adjourn; recess.
2 the crowd began to break up: disperse, scatter, disband, part company.
3 Danny and I broke up last year: split up, separate, part, part company; divorce.
4 informal the whole cast broke up: burst out laughing, crack up, dissolve into laughter. break something up
1 police tried to break up the crowd: disperse, scatter, disband.
2 I'm not going to let you break up my marriage: wreck, ruin, destroy.
