bring 
▶verb
1 he brought a tray: carry, fetch, bear, take; convey, transport, tote; move, haul, shift, lug.
2 Seth brought his bride to the club: escort, conduct, guide, lead, usher, show, shepherd.
3 the wind changed and brought rain: cause, produce, create, generate, precipitate, lead to, give rise to, result in; stir up, whip up, promote; literary beget.
4 the police contemplated bringing charges: put forward, prefer, lay, submit, present, initiate, institute.
5 this job brings him a regular salary: earn, make, fetch, bring in, yield, net, gross, return, produce; command, attract.
PHRASES
bring about the events that brought about her death: cause, produce, give rise to, result in, lead to, occasion, bring to pass; provoke, generate, engender, precipitate, bring on; formal effectuate. bring around
1 she administered CPR and brought him around: wake up, return to consciousness, rouse, bring to.
2 we would have brought him around, given time: persuade, convince, win over, sway, influence. bring back
1 the smell brought back memories: remind one of, put one in mind of, bring/call to mind, conjure up, evoke, summon up.
2 bring back the rule of law: reintroduce, reinstate, reestablish, revive, resurrect. bring down
1 he was brought down by his own teammate: trip, knock over, knock down; foul.
2 I couldn't bear to bring her down: depress, sadden, upset, get down, dispirit, dishearten, discourage.
3 we will bring down the price: decrease, reduce, lower, cut, drop; informal slash.
4 the unrest brought down the government: unseat, overturn, topple, overthrow, depose, oust. bring forward why wasn't this brought forward at the last meeting? propose, suggest, advance, raise, present, move, submit, lodge. bring in the event brings in a million dollars each year. See bring (sense 5). bring on what could have brought on this fever? See bring about. bring out
1 they were bringing out a new magazine: launch, establish, begin, start, found, set up, instigate, inaugurate, market; publish, print, issue, produce.
2 the shawl brings out the color of your eyes: accentuate, highlight, emphasize, accent, set off. bring oneself to she could not bring herself to complain: force oneself to, make oneself, bear to. bring up
1 she and Lenny brought up her brother's four children: rear, raise, care for, look after, nurture, provide for; hand-rear.
2 I wonder if he'll bring up the matter of the grocery bill: mention, allude to, touch on, raise, broach, introduce; voice, air, suggest, propose, submit, put forward, bring forward.
