by 
BrE bʌɪ, AmE baɪ 

A.  preposition 
① (indicating agent of passive verb, after noun denoting action) 被 bèi a building destroyed by fire 烧毁的大楼 I was startled by her reaction 她的反应令我大吃一惊 some remarks by Mrs White 怀特夫人说的一些话 
② (identifying author) 由…创作 yóu… chuàngzuò a novel by Virginia Woolf 弗吉尼娅伍尔夫写的一部小说 who's it by? 这是谁创作的？ 
③ (indicating means) 用 yòng you can reach me by phone 你可以打电话找我 to pay by cheque 用支票付账 to travel by bus/train 乘坐公共汽车/火车旅行 to make [something] by hand/machine 手工/用机器制造某物 to begin by saying that … 开头说道… 
④ (via, passing through) 经由 jīngyóu we entered by the back door 我们从后门进入 we'll get there quicker if we go by Birmingham 如果从伯明翰走的话，我们会更快到达那里 by the left/right, quick march! Military 从左翼/右翼，齐步走！ 
⑤ (near, beside) 在…旁边 zài… pángbiān by the bed/the window 在床边/窗边 come and sit by me 过来坐在我边上 
⑥ (past) 经过 jīngguò she walked by me 她从我身边走过 a car sped by our house 一辆汽车从我们家前面飞驰而过 
⑦ (before, not later than) 在…之前 zài… zhīqián it must be done by next Thursday 这件事必须在下周四前完成 they should have been here by now 他们现在本应该到这儿了 but by then it was too late 然而那时已经太晚了 by the time she had got downstairs, he was gone 等她到了楼下的时候，他已经走了 
⑧ (during) 在…期间 zài… qījiān to travel by day 白天旅行 by day as well as by night 日以继夜 
⑨ (to the extent or degree of) 达 dá prices have risen by 20% 价格上升了20％ he's taller than me by two centimetres 他比我高两厘米 
⑩ (in measurements) a room
20 metres by
10 metres 20米长10米宽的房子 
⑪ (in multiplication, division) 以 yǐ
10 multiplied by
5 is 50 10乘以5等于50 
⑫ (showing rate, quantity) 按 àn to pay by the hour 按小时付酬 to sell [something] by the dozen/the kilo 按打/按公斤出售某物 
⑬ (in successive degrees, units) 接着 jiēzhe day by day 日复一日地 one by one 一个接着一个地 it was getting worse by the minute 情况时时刻刻都在恶化 
⑭ (indicating parentage) 由…所生 yóu… suǒ shēng he has two children by his first wife 他和第一任妻子有两个孩子 
⑮ (indicating circumstances) 由于 yóuyú by accident/mistake 偶然地/无意地 by candlelight/moonlight 借着烛光/月光 
⑯ (according to, from evidence of) 根据 gēnjù by the rules/by law 依据规则/法律 what time is it by your watch? 你的表现在几点了？ it's all right by me 我觉得可以 I knew her by her laugh 听到笑声我就知道是她 
⑰ (with respect to) 关于 guānyú she had done her duty by him 她对他已经尽到责任了 by birth/nature 生来/天生地 
⑱ Nautical (in compass directions) 偏 piān north by north west 西北偏北 
⑲ (in promises, oaths) 以…的名义 yǐ… de míngyì I swear by Almighty God 我以全能上帝之名发誓 
B.  adverb 
① (past) 经过 jīngguò the car roared by 汽车呼啸而过 she walked on by without stopping 她走过去，没有停留 
② (near) 在附近 zài fùjìn he lives close by 他就住在附近 
③ (in reserve) 保留着 bǎoliúzhe I have some money by 我存了些钱 
④ (at sb.'s home) 短暂来访 duǎnzàn láifǎng did you have anyone by tonight? 今晚有人来过你家吗？ 
C.  by and by adverb phrase dated (before long) 不久 bùjiǔ ; (eventually) 终于 zhōngyú by and by she met an old man with a beard 不久她见到了一位留胡子的老人 
D.  by and large adverb phrase 大体上 dàtǐ shang by and large, I enjoyed my time at school 总体而言，我上学时很愉快 
E.  (all) by oneself adverb phrase 独自地 dúzì de she was sitting by herself 她一个人坐着 he did it all by himself 他全凭自己完成了这事 
F.  by the by or bye adverb phrase 
① (incidentally) 顺便 shùnbiàn where's John, by the by? 顺便问一下，约翰在哪儿？ 
② (without importance) 无关紧要 wú guān jǐnyào but that's by the by 但那无关紧要 
