carry 
▶verb
1 she carried the box into the kitchen: convey, transfer, move, take, bring, bear, lug, tote, fetch, cart.
2 a cruise line carrying a million passengers a year: transport, convey, move, handle.
3 satellites carry the signal across the country: transmit, conduct, relay, communicate, convey, dispatch, beam.
4 the dinghy can carry the weight of the baggage: support, sustain, stand; prop up, shore up, bolster.
5 managers carry most of the responsibility: bear, accept, assume, undertake, shoulder, take on (oneself).
6 she was carrying twins: be pregnant with, bear, expect; technical be gravid with.
7 she carried herself with assurance: conduct, bear, hold; act, behave, acquit; formal comport.
8 a resolution was carried: approve, vote for, accept, endorse, ratify, pass; agree to, assent to, rubber-stamp; informal OK, give the thumbs up to.
9 I carried the whole audience: win over, sway, convince, persuade, influence; motivate, stimulate.
10 today's paper carried an article on housing policy: publish, print, communicate, distribute; broadcast, transmit.
11 we carry a wide range of linens: sell, stock, keep, keep in stock, offer, have, have for sale, retail, supply.
12 most toxins carry warnings: display, bear, exhibit, show, be marked with.
13 it carries a penalty of two years' imprisonment: entail, involve, result in, occasion, have as a consequence.
14 his voice carried across the field: be audible, travel, reach.
PHRASES
be/get carried away I'm afraid I get a bit carried away: lose self-control, get overexcited, go too far; informal flip, lose it. carry something off she carried off four awards: win, secure, gain, achieve, collect; informal land, net, bag, scoop. carry on
1 they carried on arguing: continue, keep (on), go on; persist in, persevere in, stick with/at.
2 informal she was carrying on with other men: have an affair, commit adultery, have a fling, play around, mess around, fool around.
3 informal I was always carrying on: misbehave, behave badly, get up to mischief, cause trouble, get up to no good, be naughty; clown around, fool around, mess around, act up.
4 we carried on a conversation: engage in, conduct, undertake, be involved in, carry out, perform. carry out
1 operations were carried out in secret: conduct, perform, implement, execute.
2 I carried out my promise to her: fulfill, carry through, honor, redeem, make good; keep, observe, abide by, comply with, adhere to, stick to, keep faith with.
