come 
▶verb
1 come and listen: move nearer, move closer, approach, advance, draw close/closer, draw near/nearer; proceed; archaic draw nigh. ANTONYMS go away.
2 they came last night: arrive, get here/there, make it, appear, come on the scene; approach, enter, turn up, come along, materialize; informal show (up), roll in/up, blow in, show one's face. ANTONYMS leave.
3 they came to a stream: reach, arrive at, get to, make it to; come across, run across, happen on/upon, chance on/upon, come upon, stumble on/upon; end up at, wind up at.
4 the dress comes to her ankles: extend to, stretch to, reach, come as far as.
5 she comes from Italy: be from, be a native of, hail from, originate in; live in, reside in.
6 attacks came without warning: happen, occur, take place, come about, transpire, fall, present itself, crop up, materialize, arise, arrive, appear; ensue, follow; literary come to pass, befall.
7 the shoes come in black and brown: be available, be for sale; be made, be produced.
PHRASES
come about the change came about in the late 1980s: happen, occur, take place, transpire, fall; crop up, materialize, arise, arrive, appear, surface; ensue, follow; literary come to pass, befall. come across
1 they came across his friends: meet/find by chance, meet, run into, run across, come upon, chance on/upon, stumble on/upon, happen on/upon; discover, encounter, find, locate; informal bump into.
2 the emotion comes across: be communicated, be perceived, get across, be clear, be understood, register, sink in, strike home.
3 she came across as cool: seem, appear, look, sound, look to be. come along
1 the puppies are coming along nicely: progress, develop, shape up; come on, turn out; improve, get better, pick up, rally, recover.
2 come along! hurry (up), be quick, get a move on, come on, look lively, speed up, move faster; informal get moving, get cracking, step on it, move it, shake a leg, make it snappy; dated make haste. come apart if the straw is too short, the bales will come apart: break apart, break up, fall to bits/pieces, fall apart, disintegrate, come unstuck, separate, split, tear. come around
1 the smelling salts helped him come around: regain consciousness, recover consciousness, come to, come to one's senses, recover, revive, awake, wake up.
2 I came around to her view: be converted to, be won over by, agree with, change one's mind to, be persuaded by; give way to, yield to, relent to.
3 Friday the 13th comes around every few months: occur, take place, happen, come up, crop up, arise; recur, reoccur, return, reappear.
4 come around for a drink: visit, stop by, drop by/in/over, come over, pop in/over. come back are you coming back before dinner? return, get back, arrive home, come home; come again. come between I let my drinking come between me and my family: alienate, estrange, separate, divide, split up, break up, disunite, set at odds. come by where did you ever come by such a magnificent horse? obtain, acquire, gain, get, find, pick up, procure, secure; buy, purchase; informal get one's hands on, get hold of, bag, score, swing. come down the report comes down against a zoning variance in the wetlands: decide, conclude, settle; choose, opt, plump. come down on she came down on him like a ton of bricks. See reprimand (verb). come down to it comes down to two choices: stay in school or find another place to live: amount to, add up to, constitute, boil down to, be equivalent to. come down with the whole family has come down with chickenpox: fall ill with, fall sick with, be taken ill with, show symptoms of, become infected with, get, catch, develop, contract, fall victim to. come forward Vera is always the first to come forward: volunteer, offer one's services, make oneself available. come in you can't come in without a pass: enter, gain admission, cross the threshold. come into Jerry came into a small fortune when his grandfather died: inherit, be left, be willed, be bequeathed. come off if you make this meeting come off, you're probably looking at a promotion: succeed, work, turn out well, work out, go as planned, produce the desired result, get results. come on the new bookcases are coming on nicely: progress, develop, shape up, take shape, come along, turn out; improve. come out
1 it came out that he'd been to Rome: become known, become apparent, come to light, emerge, transpire; get out, be discovered, be uncovered, be revealed, leak out, be disclosed.
2 my book is coming out: be published, be issued, be released, be brought out, be printed, go on sale.
3 the flowers have come out: bloom, flower, open.
4 it will come out all right: end, finish, conclude, work out, turn out; informal pan out.
5 the councilman came out voluntarily: disclose one's homosexuality; informal come out of the closet. come out with I didn't really mean to come out with those stupid remarks: utter, say, let out, blurt out, burst out with; issue, present. come through
1 we came through it OK: survive, get through, ride out, weather, live through, pull through; withstand, stand up to, endure, surmount, overcome; informal stick out.
2 you came through for us: help, be there for. come to
1 the bill came to $17.50: amount to, add up to, total, run to, equal.
2 I came to in the ambulance: regain consciousness, recover consciousness, come around, come to one's senses, recover, revive, awake, wake up. come up whatever comes up, we'll be ready: arise, occur, happen, come about, transpire, emerge, surface, crop up, turn up, pop up. come up to
1 she came up to his shoulder: reach, come to, be as tall as, extend to.
2 he never came up to her expectations: measure up to, match up to, live up to, fulfill, satisfy, meet, equal, compare with; be good enough for; informal hold a candle to. come up with Miranda has come up with a terrific idea: produce, devise, think up; propose, put forward, submit, suggest, recommend, advocate, introduce, moot.
