cover 
▶verb
1 she covered her face with a towel: protect, shield, shelter; hide, conceal, veil. ANTONYMS expose, reveal.
2 his car was covered in mud: cake, coat, encrust, plaster, smother, daub, bedaub.
3 snow covered the fields: blanket, overlay, overspread, carpet, coat; literary mantle.
4 a course covering all aspects of the business: deal with, consider, take in, include, involve, comprise, incorporate, embrace.
5 the trial was covered by several newspapers: report on, write about, describe, commentate on, publish/broadcast details of.
6 he turned on the radio to cover the noise of the air conditioner: mask, disguise, hide, camouflage, muffle, block out, stifle, smother.
7 I'm covering for Jill: stand in for, fill in for, deputize for, take over from, relieve, take the place of, sit in for, understudy, hold the fort; informal sub for, pinch-hit for.
8 can you make enough to cover your costs? pay (for), be enough for, fund, finance; pay back, make up for, offset.
9 your home is covered against damage and loss: insure, protect, secure, underwrite, assure, indemnify.
10 we covered ten miles each day: travel, journey, go, do, traverse.
▶noun
1 a protective cover 
a manhole cover. See covering (sense
1 of the noun).
2 a book cover: binding, jacket, dust jacket, dust cover, wrapper.
3 (covers) she pulled the covers over her head: bedding, bedclothes, sheets, blankets.
4 a thick cover of snow: coating, coat, covering, layer, carpet, blanket, overlay, dusting, film, sheet, veneer, crust, skin, cloak, mantle, veil, pall, shroud.
5 panicking onlookers ran for cover: shelter, protection, refuge, sanctuary, haven, hiding place.
6 there is considerable game cover around the lake: undergrowth, vegetation, greenery, woodland, trees, bushes, brush, scrub, plants; covert, thicket, copse.
7 the company was a cover for an international swindle: front, facade, smokescreen, screen, blind, camouflage, disguise, mask, cloak.
8 on weekends there's a cover to get in the bar: cover charge, entry charge, entrance fee, admission charge, price of admission.
PHRASES
cover up they allegedly tried to cover up the accidental shooting: conceal, hide, keep secret, hush up, draw a veil over, suppress, sweep under the carpet, gloss over, keep dark; informal whitewash, keep a/the lid on.
