do 
▶verb
1 she does most of the manual work: carry out, undertake, discharge, execute, perform, accomplish, achieve; bring about/off, engineer; informal pull off; formal effectuate.
2 they can do as they please: act, behave, conduct oneself, acquit oneself; formal comport oneself.
3 regular coffee will do: suffice, be adequate, be satisfactory, fill/fit the bill, serve one's purpose, meet one's needs.
4 the boys will do the dinner: prepare, make, get ready, see to, arrange, organize, be responsible for, be in charge of; informal fix.
5 the company is doing a new range of footwear 
a portrait I am doing: make, create, produce, turn out, design, manufacture; paint, draw, sketch; informal knock off.
6 each room was done in a different color: decorate, furnish, ornament, deck out, trick out; informal do up.
7 the maid did her hair: style, arrange, adjust; brush, comb, wash, dry, cut; informal fix.
8 I am doing a show to raise money: put on, present, produce; perform in, act in, take part in, participate in.
9 you've done me a favor: grant, pay, render, give.
10 show me how to do these equations: work out, figure out, calculate; solve, resolve.
11 she's doing archaeology: study, learn, take a course in.
12 what does he do? have as a job, have as a profession, be employed at, earn a living at.
13 he is doing well at college: get on/along, progress, fare, manage, cope; succeed, prosper.
14 he was doing 25 mph over the speed limit: drive at, travel at, move at.
15 the cyclists do 30 kilometers per day: travel (over), journey, cover, traverse, achieve, notch up, log; informal chalk up.
16 informal we're doing Scotland this summer: visit, tour, sightsee in.
▶noun informal he invited us to a grand do: party, reception, gathering, celebration, function, after-party, social event/occasion, social, soirée; informal bash, shindig.
PHRASES
do away with
1 they want to do away with the old customs: abolish, get rid of, discard, remove, eliminate, discontinue, stop, end, terminate, put an end to, put a stop to, dispense with, drop, abandon, give up; informal scrap, ditch, dump, deep-six.
2 informal she tried to do away with her husband. See kill (sense
1 of the verb). do in informal
1 the poor devil's been done in. See kill (sense
1 of the verb).
2 the long walk home did me in: wear out, tire out, exhaust, fatigue, weary, overtire, drain; informal take it out of.
3 I did my back in: injure, hurt, damage. do out of informal she nearly succeeded in doing Martin out of his inheritance: swindle out of, cheat out of, trick out of, deprive of; informal con out of, diddle out of. do up
1 she did up her bootlace: fasten, tie (up), lace, knot; make fast, secure.
2 informal he's had his house done up: renovate, refurbish, refit, redecorate, decorate, revamp, make over, modernize, improve, spruce up, smarten up; informal give something a facelift, rehab, tart up, pimp. do without we learned to do without many of the luxuries we had become accustomed to: forgo, dispense with, abstain from, refrain from, eschew, give up, cut out, renounce, manage without; formal forswear.
