do
1 
BrE duː, AmE du 

A.  transitive verb(3rd person singular present does; past tense did; negative past tense did not or colloquial didn't; past participle done) 
① (perform, be busy with) 做 zuò ‹housework›what does he do for a living? 他靠什么谋生？ to do the ironing 熨衣服 to do some repairs 修东西 it was all I could do not to laugh 我几乎忍不住笑出来 what are you doing with yourself these days? 最近你怎么打发时间的？ she won't have anything to do with me 她不肯理我 what are you going to do for money? 你打算怎么弄到钱？ what's done is done 木已成舟 what's this dirty plate/pile of newspapers doing here? 这只脏盘子/这堆报纸怎么会在这儿？ 
② (make attractive) 使美观 shǐ měiguān to do [somebody's] hair/nails 为某人做头发/修指甲 to do one's teeth/face 刷牙/洗脸 to do the living room in pink 把客厅装饰成粉红色 she does the flowers in church on Sunday 她周日去教堂布置鲜花 
③ (complete) 完成 wánchéng ‹job, masterpiece, term›to be done doing [something] colloquial 做完 are you done complaining/eating? colloquial 你抱怨完/吃完了吗？ a woman's work is never done proverb 女人的活永远做不完 she did two years at college 她在学院学习了两年 to do a one-year sentence 服刑一年 he did his military service in the navy 他曾在海军服役 it's as good as done 差不多完成了 that's done it (job completed) 行了 xíngle (in dismay) 完蛋了 wándànle 
④ (study) 研究 yánjiū ‹book, author›; 学习 xuéxí ‹subject›he's doing an MA 他在读文学硕士 we're doing Shakespeare this year 我们今年研读莎士比亚作品 
⑤ (write) 写作 xiězuò ‹critique, book›to do a translation into Chinese 把一些东西翻译成中文 to do a biography of [somebody] 写一部某人的传记 
⑥ (effect change on) 改变 gǎibiàn what have you done to the kitchen? 你把厨房怎么动了一下？ I haven't done anything with your pen! 我没把你的笔怎么样！ that hat does a lot/nothing for her 她戴那顶帽子漂亮多了/没什么变化 what am I to do with you! 真拿你没办法！ 
⑦ (hurt) 伤害 shānghài to do something to one's foot 伤到脚 what have you done to your leg? 你的腿怎么了？ 
⑧ colloquial (handle) 处理 chǔlǐ (provide) 提供 tígōng ‹service, meal›; 出售 chūshòu ‹tickets›the hairdresser can do you now 美发师现在可以为您服务了 
⑨ (cook) 做 zuò ‹omelette›; 烤 kǎo ‹toast›; 煮 zhǔ ‹noodles›
⑩ (prepare) 洗切 xǐqiē ‹vegetables›
⑪ Theatre 排演 páiyǎn ‹play, programme›to do a season of Brecht plays 进行布莱希特戏剧季的演出 
⑫ (imitate) 模仿 mófǎng ‹celebrity, voice›she can do Margaret Thatcher very well 她能将玛格丽特撒切尔模仿得惟妙惟肖 
⑬ (travel at) 以…的速度行驶 yǐ… de sùdù xíngshǐ this boat does 50 mph 这艘小艇的速度达到每小时50英里 I was doing
10 mph 我正以每小时10英里的速度行进 
⑭ (cover distance of) 走完…的距离 zǒuwán… de jùlí we've done 30 km since lunch 午饭后我们已走了30公里路 
⑮ colloquial (tour) 游览 yóulǎn to do Venice 游览威尼斯 
⑯ colloquial (fill needs of) 适合 shìhé will this pen do you? 这支笔你用得上吗？ 
⑰ colloquial (cheat) 欺骗 qīpiàn to do [somebody] out of [something] 从某人处骗走 ‹money, job›I've been done out of £20 我被骗走了20英镑 we've been done 我们上当了 
⑱ colloquial (sterilize) 骟 shàn to get the cat/dog done 骟猫/骟狗 
⑲ colloquial (rob) 抢劫 qiǎngjié to do a bank 抢银行 
⑳ colloquial (convict) 宣判…有罪 xuānpàn… yǒuzuì to get done for [something] 因…被判有罪 ‹offence›
B.  intransitive verb(3rd person singular present does; past tense did; negative past tense did not or colloquial didn't; past participle done) 
① (behave) 做 zuò do as I do 照着我的样子做 well done! 干得好！ do unto others as you would have them do unto you proverb 己所不欲，勿施于人 
② (be right) 合适 héshì that box will do 那个盒子能行 these trousers will do for gardening 这条裤子可以穿来侍弄花园 this (really) won't do! 这（真的）不行！ it wouldn't do to be late 不可以迟到 
③ (be enough) 足够 zúgòu just a little will do 一点就够了 that'll do! (as reprimand) 够了！ 
④ (get on) 进行 jìnxíng how are you doing? (regarding health) 你好！ (regarding progress) 你做得怎么样？ how do you do? 你好！ how did you do in your exams? 你考得怎么样？ his business is doing all right 他的生意还不错 the patient is not doing well 病人恢复得不太好 
⑤ colloquial (be active) 活跃 huóyuè to be up and doing again in no time 马上又生龙活虎 there is nothing doing in this town after nine 9点以后这镇上就死气沉沉了 nothing doing! 不行！ 
C.  auxiliary verb(3rd person singular present does; past tense did; negative past tense did not or colloquial didn't; past participle done) 
① (with questions, negatives) [用于疑问句和否定句]do you agree? 你同意吗？ you don't have to answer 你不必回答 didn't he look great! 他看上去很棒吧！ 
② (for emphasis) [用于强调]I do wish you'd let me help you 我非常希望你会让我帮助你 accidents like that do sometimes happen 那种事故有时的确会发生 
③ (referring to other verb) [用于代替实义动词]I don't like cheese and neither does she 我不喜欢奶酪，她也不喜欢 either you did or you didn't see her 你要么看到她了，要么就没看到 
④ (in requests, imperatives) [用于请求和祈使句中加强语气]may I take a leaflet? — do 我可以拿一份传单吗？──拿吧 do be careful! 一定要小心！ don't you tell me what to do! 用不着你来告诉我该怎么做！ 
⑤ (in tag questions, responses) [用于附加疑问句和回答]he knows her, does he? 他认识她，是吗？ shall I tell him? — no, don't 我该告诉他吗？──不，别告诉他 
⑥ (with inversion) [用于倒装句]only rarely does he write letters 他极少写信 little did he suspect that … 他几乎丝毫没有怀疑… 
D.  noun 
① BrE colloquial (party) 聚会 jùhuì to have a do to celebrate passing one's exams 为通过考试而庆祝一番 a leaving do 告别晚会 
② dos and don'ts colloquial 注意事项 zhùyì shìxiàng too many dos and don'ts 规矩太多 guīju tài duō PHRASAL VERBS do away with transitive verb[do away with something/somebody] 
① (abolish, get rid of) 废除 fèichú ‹rule, service›; 拆掉 chāidiào ‹wall, building›
② colloquial (kill) 干掉 gàndiào ‹person, animal›do down transitive verb [do somebody/something down] BrE colloquial 贬低 biǎndī don't do yourself down 别责怪自己 do for transitive verb [do for somebody/something] colloquial «illness» 杀死 shāsǐ ‹person›; figurative 毁掉 huǐdiào ‹project, company›I'm done for figurative 我完蛋了 do in transitive verb[do somebody in] colloquial 
① (kill) 杀死 shāsǐ mobsters did him in 匪徒们杀了他 
② (exhaust) 使…筋疲力尽 shǐ… jīn pí lì jìn I feel done in 我感觉浑身无力 do out transitive verb [do something out, do out something] colloquial 装饰 zhuāngshì ‹room›to be done out in blue 装饰成蓝色 do over transitive verbcolloquial 
① [do somebody over] BrE 痛打 tòngdǎ they did him over for no reason whatsoever 他们无缘无故痛打了他一顿 
② [do something over] (ransack) 寻遍 xúnbiàn thieves had done over the entire house 盗贼翻遍了整栋房子 
③ [do something over] AmE (redo) 重做 chóngzuò the teacher told her to do it over (again) 老师让她重做一遍 do up 
A.  transitive verb[do something up, do up something] 
① (fasten) 系好 jìhǎo ‹clothes, laces, shoes›; 拉上 lāshang ‹zip›; 扣好 kòuhǎo ‹buttons›
② (wrap) 捆扎 kǔnzā ‹parcel›the package was done up with string 包裹是用细绳绑起来的 to do one's hair (up) in a bun 把头发扎成圆髻 
③ colloquial (renovate) 翻新 fānxīn ‹house›we are doing up the living room 我们在翻修客厅 
④ colloquial (adorn) 打扮 dǎban to do oneself up in fine clothes 穿上漂亮的衣服 
B.  intransitive verb «clothes» 系牢 jìláo to do up at the back/with a zip 在后面/用拉链系起来 do with transitive verb 
① to have to do with [something]/[somebody] (involve) 和…有关 hé… yǒuguān it has something/nothing to do with money 这和钱有关/无关 zhè hé qián yǒuguān/wúguān it has nothing to do with you 这不关你的事 zhè bùguān nǐ de shì 
② BrE (tolerate) 忍受 rěnshòu I can't be doing with loud music 我受不了太响的音乐 
③ (need) 需要 xūyào I could do with a holiday 我得休假了 what I could do with is … 我需要的是… 
④ to be done with; (have finished) 做完 ‹work› 用完 yòngwán ‹tool› 吃完 chīwán ‹meal›it's all over and done with 彻底完成了 I used to gamble heavily, but I'm done with all that now 我曾经赌博成瘾，但现在已经彻底洗手不干了 do without transitive verb[do without something] 可以没有 kěyǐ méiyǒu ‹food, luxuries›I can't do without the car 我不能没有车 I can do without your advice 我不需要你的劝告 you'll have to do without! 你只好将就了！ 
