fall 
▶verb
1 bombs began to fall: drop, descend, come down, go down; plummet, plunge, sink, dive, tumble; cascade. ANTONYMS rise.
2 he tripped and fell: topple over, tumble over, keel over, fall down/over, go head over heels, go headlong, collapse, take a spill, pitch forward; trip, stumble, slip; informal come a cropper. ANTONYMS get up.
3 the river began to fall: subside, recede, ebb, flow back, fall away, go down, sink. ANTONYMS rise, flood.
4 inflation will fall: decrease, decline, diminish, fall off, drop off, lessen, dwindle; plummet, plunge, slump, sink; depreciate, cheapen, devalue; informal go through the floor, nosedive, take a header, crash. ANTONYMS rise, increase.
5 the Mogul empire fell: decline, deteriorate, degenerate, go downhill, go to rack and ruin; decay, wither, fade, fail; informal go to the dogs, go to pot, go down the toilet. ANTONYMS rise, flood, increase, flourish.
6 those who fell in the war: die, perish, lose one's life, be killed, be slain, be lost, meet one's death; informal bite the dust, croak, buy it, buy the farm. ANTONYMS flourish.
7 the town fell to the barbarians: surrender to, yield to, submit to, give in to, capitulate to, succumb to; be taken by, be defeated by, be conquered by, be overwhelmed by. ANTONYMS resist.
8 Easter fell on April 11th: occur, take place, happen, come about; arise; literary come to pass.
9 night fell: come, arrive, appear, arise, materialize.
10 she fell ill: become, grow, get, turn.
11 more tasks may fall to him: be the responsibility of, be the duty of, be borne by, be one's job; come someone's way.
▶noun
1 an accidental fall: tumble, trip, spill, topple, slip; collapse; informal nosedive, header, cropper.
2 a fall in sales: decline, falloff, drop, decrease, cut, dip, reduction, downswing; plummet, plunge, slump; informal nosedive, crash. ANTONYMS increase.
3 the fall of the Roman Empire: downfall, collapse, ruin, ruination, failure, decline, deterioration, degeneration; destruction, overthrow, demise. ANTONYMS increase, rise, ascent.
4 the fall of the city: surrender, capitulation, yielding, submission; defeat. ANTONYMS rise.
5 a steep fall down to the ocean: descent, declivity, slope, slant, incline, downgrade. ANTONYMS ascent.
6 the fall of man: sin, wrongdoing, transgression, error, offense, lapse, fall from grace, original sin.
7 (falls) rafting trips below the falls: waterfall, cascade, cataract; rapids, white water.
PHRASES
fall apart the old teacup fell apart in my hands: fall to pieces, fall to bits, come apart (at the seams); disintegrate, fragment, break up, break apart, crumble, decay, perish; informal bust. fall asleep I almost fell asleep at work: doze off, drop off, go to sleep; informal nod off, go off, drift off, crash, conk out, go out like a light, sack out. fall away the ground here falls away abruptly: slope down, slope, slant down, go down, drop, drop away, descend, dip, sink, plunge. fall back the troops were ordered to fall back: retreat, withdraw, back off, draw back, pull back, pull away, move away. fall back on I can always fall back on my career in landscaping: resort to, turn to, look to, call on, have recourse to; rely on, depend on, lean on. fall behind
1 the other walkers fell behind: lag, lag behind, trail, trail behind, be left behind, drop back, bring up the rear; straggle, dally, dawdle, hang back.
2 they fell behind on their payments: get into debt, get into arrears, default, be in the red. fall for
1 she fell for John: fall in love with, become infatuated with, lose one's heart to, take a fancy to, be smitten with/by, be attracted to; informal have the hots for.
2 she won't fall for that trick: be deceived by, be duped by, be fooled by, be taken in by, believe, trust, be convinced by; informal go for, buy, 'swallow (hook, line, and sinker)'. fall in
1 the roof fell in: collapse, cave in, crash in, fall down; give way, crumble, disintegrate.
2 the soldiers fell in: get in formation, get in line, line up, take one's position.
3 he fell in with a bad crowd: get involved, take up, join up, go around, make friends; informal hang, hang out. fall off See fall (sense
4 of the verb). fall on the army fell on the rebels: attack, assail, assault, fly at, set about, set upon; pounce upon, ambush, surprise, rush, storm, charge; informal jump, lay into, have a go at. fall out let's not fall out over something so silly: quarrel, argue, row, fight, squabble, bicker, have words, disagree, be at odds, clash, wrangle, cross swords, lock horns, be at loggerheads, be at each other's throats; informal scrap. fall short we sincerely hope that our fundraising efforts will not fall short: be deficient, be inadequate, be insufficient, be wanting, be lacking, disappoint; informal not come up to scratch, not come up to snuff. fall short of the results fell short of what was expected: fail to meet, fail to reach, fail to live up to. fall through the deal fell through: fail, be unsuccessful, come to nothing, miscarry, abort, go awry, collapse, founder, come to grief; informal fizzle out, flop, fold, come a cropper, go over like a lead balloon.
