fix 
▶verb
1 he fixed my washing machine: repair, mend, put right, put to rights, get working, restore (to working order); overhaul, service, renovate, recondition.
2 signs were fixed to utility poles: fasten, attach, affix, secure; join, connect, couple, link; install, implant, embed; stick, glue, pin, nail, screw, bolt, clamp, clip.
3 his words are fixed in my memory: stick, lodge, embed, burned, branded.
4 his eyes were fixed on the ground: focus, direct, level, point, train.
5 informal Laura was fixing her hair: arrange, put in order, adjust; style, groom, comb, brush; informal do.
6 informal Chris will fix supper: prepare, cook, make, get; informal rustle up, whip up.
7 let's fix a date for the meeting: decide on, select, choose, resolve on; determine, settle, set, arrange, establish, allot; designate, name, appoint, specify.
8 chemicals are used to fix the dye: make permanent, make fast, set.
9 informal the fight was fixed: rig, arrange fraudulently; tamper with, influence; informal fiddle.
10 informal don't tell anybody, or I'll fix you! get one's revenge on, avenge oneself on, get even with, get back at, take reprisals against, punish, deal with; sort someone out.
11 the cat has been fixed: castrate, neuter, geld, spay, desex, sterilize; informal doctor, alter.
▶noun informal
1 they are in a bit of a fix: predicament, plight, difficulty, awkward situation, corner, tight spot; mess, mare's nest, dire straits; informal pickle, jam, hole, scrape, bind, sticky situation.
2 he needed his fix: dose; informal hit.
3 a quick fix for the coal industry: solution, answer, resolution, way out, remedy, cure, placebo; informal magic bullet, band-aid solution.
4 the result was a complete fix: fraud, swindle, trick, charade, sham; informal setup, fiddle.
PHRASES
fixing to are you fixing to start a fight? about to, ready to, all set to, preparing to, getting ready to, intending to, soon to; on the point of, on the verge of, on the brink of. fix up informal we need to get Dolly fixed up with a job: provide, supply, furnish. REFLECTIONS David Auburnfixing to If you grew up in the South, you used this expression a lot, and no other synonymous phrase—not preparing to, not getting ready to or about to —quite conveys the combination of determined intent with a hint of threat, as in, “Look out, I'm fixing to come over there ….”Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
