go 
▶verb
1 he's gone into town: move, proceed, make one's way, advance, progress, pass; walk, travel, journey; literary betake oneself.
2 the road goes to Michigan Avenue: extend, stretch, reach; lead.
3 the money will go to charity: be given, be donated, be granted, be presented, be awarded; be devoted; be handed (over).
4 it's time to go: leave, depart, go away, withdraw, absent oneself, make an exit, exit; set off, start out, get underway, be on one's way; decamp, retreat, retire, make off, clear out, run off, run away, flee, make a move; informal make tracks, push off, beat it, take off, skedaddle, scram, split, scoot. ANTONYMS arrive, come.
5 how quickly the years go by : pass, elapse, slip by/past, roll by/past, tick away; fly by/past.
6 a golden age that has gone for good: disappear, vanish, be no more, cease to exist, come to an end, be over, run its course, fade away; finish, end, cease. ANTONYMS return.
7 when your money is gone, you'll come crawling back: be used up, be spent, be exhausted, be consumed, be drained, be depleted.
8 I'd like to see my grandchildren before I go: die, pass away, pass on, lose one's life, expire, breathe one's last, perish, go to meet one's maker; informal give up the ghost, kick the bucket, croak, buy it, bite the big one, buy the farm, check out; archaic decease, depart this life.
9 the bridge went suddenly: collapse, give way, fall down, cave in, crumble, disintegrate.
10 his hair had gone gray: become, get, turn, grow.
11 he heard the bell go: make a sound, sound, reverberate, resound; ring, chime, peal, toll, clang.
12 everything went well: turn out, work out, develop, come out; result, end (up); informal pan out.
13 those colors don't go: match, be harmonious, harmonize, blend, be suited, be complementary, coordinate, be compatible. ANTONYMS clash.
14 my car won't go: function, work, run, operate.
15 where does the cutlery go? belong, be kept.
16 this all goes to prove my point: contribute, help, serve; incline, tend.
▶noun
1 her second go: attempt, try, effort, bid, endeavor; informal shot, stab, crack, bash, whirl, whack; formal essay.
2 he has plenty of go in him: energy, vigor, vitality, life, liveliness, spirit, verve, enthusiasm, zest, vibrancy, sparkle; stamina, dynamism, drive, push, determination; informal pep, punch, oomph, get-up-and-go.
PHRASES
go about Ruth went about with her housework: set about, begin, embark on, start, commence, address oneself to, get down to, get to work on, get going on, undertake; approach, tackle, attack; informal get cracking on/with. go along with I'm willing to go along with that idea: agree to/with, fall in with, comply with, cooperate with, acquiesce in, assent to, follow; submit to, yield to, defer to. go around
1 the wheels were going around: spin, revolve, turn, rotate, whirl.
2 a nasty rumor is going around: be spread, be circulated, be put about, circulate, be broadcast. go away See go (sense
4 of the verb). go back on she went back on her promise: renege on, break, fail to honor, default on, repudiate, retract; do an about-face; informal cop out (of). go by we have to go by his decision: obey, abide by, comply with, keep to, conform to, follow, heed, defer to, respect. go down
1 the ship went down: sink, founder, go under.
2 interest rates are going down: decrease, get lower, fall, drop, decline; plummet, plunge, slump.
3 informal they went down in the first round: lose, be beaten, be defeated.
4 his name will go down in history: be remembered, be recorded, be commemorated, be immortalized. go far stick with your aunts' company and you'll go far: be successful, succeed, be a success, do well, get on, get somewhere, get ahead, make good; informal make a name for oneself, make one's mark. go for
1 I went for the tuna: choose, pick, opt for, select, decide on, settle on.
2 the dog went for her: attack, assault, hit, strike, beat up, assail, set upon, rush at, lash out at; informal lay into, rough up, have a go at, beat up on.
3 she goes for younger men: be attracted to, like, fancy; prefer, favor, choose; informal have a thing about. go in for until I got to San Juan, I'd never gone in for water sports: take part in, participate in, engage in, get involved in, join in, enter into, undertake; practice, pursue; espouse, adopt, embrace. go into you should have gone into the subject more thoroughly: investigate, examine, inquire into, look into, research, probe, explore, delve into; consider, review, analyze. go off the bomb went off: explode, detonate, blow up. go on
1 the lecture went on for hours: last, continue, carry on, run on, proceed; endure, persist; take.
2 she went on about her cruise: talk at length, ramble, rattle on, chatter, prattle, blather, twitter; informal gab, yak, yabber, yatter, run off at the mouth, mouth off.
3 I'm not sure what went on: happen, take place, occur, transpire; informal go down; literary come to pass, betide. go out
1 the lights went out: be turned off, be extinguished; stop burning.
2 he's going out with Kate: see, date, take out, be someone's boyfriend/girlfriend, be involved with; informal go steady with, go with; dated court, woo, step out with. go over
1 go over the figures: examine, study, scrutinize, inspect, look at/over, scan, check; analyze, appraise, review.
2 we are going over our lines: rehearse, practice, read through, run through. go through
1 the terrible things she has gone through: undergo, experience, face, suffer, be subjected to, live through, endure, brave, bear, tolerate, withstand, put up with, cope with, weather.
2 she went through hundreds of dollars: spend, use up, run through, get through, expend, deplete, burn up; waste, squander, fritter away.
3 she went through Sue's bag: search, look through, hunt through, rummage in/through, rifle through.
4 I have to go through the report: examine, study, scrutinize, inspect, look over, scan, check; analyze, appraise, review.
5 the deal has gone through: be completed, be concluded, be brought off; be approved, be signed, be rubber-stamped, be given the green light. go under another local restaurant has gone under: go bankrupt, be shut (down), go into receivership, go into liquidation, become insolvent, be liquidated, cease trading; fail; informal go broke, go belly up, fold. go without
1 I went without breakfast: abstain from, refrain from, forgo, do without, deny oneself.
2 the children did not go without: be deprived, be in want, go short, go hungry, be in need.
