hang 
▶verb
1 lights hung from the trees: be suspended, dangle, hang down, be pendent, swing, sway.
2 hang the pictures at eye level: put up, fix, attach, affix, fasten, post, display, suspend, pin up, nail up.
3 the room was hung with streamers: decorate, adorn, drape, festoon, deck out, trick out, bedeck, array, garland, swathe, cover, ornament; literary bedizen.
4 he was hanged for murder: string up, send to the gallows.
5 a pall of smoke hung over the city: hover, float, drift, be suspended.
PHRASES
hang around informal
1 they spent their time hanging around in bars: loiter, linger, wait around, waste time, kill time, mark time, while away the/one's time, cool one's heels, twiddle one's thumbs; frequent, be a regular visitor to, haunt; informal hang out in.
2 she's hanging around with a gang of marketing types: associate, mix, keep company, socialize, fraternize, consort, rub elbows; informal hang out, run around, be thick, hobnob. hang on
1 he hung on to her coat: hold on to, hold fast to, grip, clutch, grasp, hold tightly to, cling to.
2 her future hung on their decision: depend on, be dependent on, turn on, hinge on, rest on, be contingent on, be determined by, be decided by.
3 I'll hang on as long as I can: persevere, hold out, hold on, go on, carry on, keep on, keep going, keep at it, continue, persist, stay with it, struggle on, plod on; informal soldier on, stick to/at it, stick it out, hang in there.
4 informal hang on, let me think: wait, wait a minute, wait a second, hold on, stop; hold the line/phone; informal hold your horses, sit tight, wait a sec. hang over someone the threat of budget cuts is hanging over us: be imminent, threaten, be close, be impending, impend, loom, be on the horizon. 
USAGE
hang, hanged, hung In modern English, hang has two past tense and past participle forms: hanged and hung. Hung is the normal form in most general uses (they hung out the wash; she hung around for a few minutes; he had hung the picture over the fireplace), but hanged is the form normally used in reference to execution by hanging (she was hanged as a witch in April 1621).Usage notes show additional guidance on finer points of English usage.
