hit 
▶verb
1 she hit her child: strike, slap, smack, spank, cuff, punch, thump, swat; beat, thrash, batter, pound, pummel, box someone's ears; whip, flog, cane; informal whack, wallop, bash, bop, clout, clip, clobber, sock, swipe, crown, beat the living daylights out of, knock someone around, belt, tan, lay into, let someone have it, deck, floor, slug; literary smite.
2 a car hit the barrier: crash into, run into, smash into, smack into, knock into, bump into, plow into, collide with, meet head-on, impact.
3 informal spending will hit $180 million: reach, touch, arrive at, rise to, climb to.
4 it hit me that I had forgotten: occur to, strike, dawn on, come to; enter one's head, cross one's mind, come to mind, spring to one's mind.
▶noun
1 he received a hit from behind: blow, thump, punch, knock, bang, cuff, slap, smack, spank, tap, crack, stroke, welt, karate chop; impact, collision, bump, crash; informal whack, thwack, wallop, bash, belt, clout, sock, swipe, clip, slug.
2 he directed many big hits: success, box-office success, sellout, winner, triumph, sensation; bestseller; informal smash, smash hit, megahit, knockout, crowd-pleaser, chart-topper, chart-buster, wow, biggie, number one. ANTONYMS failure.
PHRASES
hit back if you're gonna come after me with lies and innuendo, I'm gonna hit back: retaliate, respond, reply, react, counter, defend oneself. hit hard the tragedy hit her hard: devastate, affect badly, hurt, harm, leave a mark on; upset, shatter, crush, shock, overwhelm, traumatize. hit home the documentary on teen suicide painfully hit home: have the intended effect, strike home, hit the mark, register, be understood, get through, sink in. hit it off informal Mark and Mika hit it off almost immediately: get on well, get along, get on, be friends, be friendly, be compatible, be well matched, feel a rapport, see eye to eye, take to each other, warm to each other; informal click, get on like a house on fire, be on the same wavelength. hit on/upon
1 he hit on the truth 
Cagney hit upon a great idea for the finale: discover, come up with, think of, conceive of, dream up, work out, invent, create, devise, design, pioneer; uncover, stumble on, happen upon, chance on, light on, come upon.
2 he tried to hit on me: flirt with, show interest in, make eyes at, come on to, make advances to/toward.
