honor 
▶noun
1 a man of honor: integrity, honesty, uprightness, ethics, morals, morality, principles, high principles, righteousness, high-mindedness; virtue, goodness, decency, probity, character, good character, scrupulousness, worth, fairness, justness, trustworthiness, reliability, dependability. ANTONYMS unscrupulousness, dishonor.
2 a mark of honor: distinction, recognition, privilege, glory, kudos, cachet, prestige, merit, credit; importance, illustriousness, notability; respect, esteem, approbation. ANTONYMS disgrace.
3 our honor is at stake: reputation, name, good name, good credit, character, esteem, repute, image, standing, stature, status, popularity.
4 he was welcomed with honor: acclaim, acclamation, applause, accolades, adoration, tributes, compliments, salutes, bouquets; homage, praise, veneration, glory, reverence, adulation, exaltation; dated laud. ANTONYMS contempt.
5 she had the honor of meeting the First Lady: privilege, pleasure, pride, joy; compliment, favor, distinction. ANTONYMS shame.
6 military honors: accolade, award, reward, prize, decoration, distinction, medal, ribbon, star, laurel.
7 dated she died defending her honor: chastity, virginity, maidenhead, purity, innocence, modesty; archaic virtue, maidenhood.
▶verb
1 we should honor our parents: esteem, respect, admire, defer to, look up to; appreciate, value, cherish, adore; reverence, revere, venerate, worship; informal put on a pedestal. ANTONYMS disrespect.
2 they were honored at a special ceremony: applaud, acclaim, praise, salute, recognize, celebrate, commemorate, commend, hail, lionize, exalt, eulogize, pay homage to, pay tribute to, sing the praises of; formal laud. ANTONYMS disgrace, criticize.
3 he honored the contract: fulfill, observe, keep, obey, heed, follow, carry out, discharge, implement, execute, effect; keep to, abide by, adhere to, comply with, conform to, be true to, live up to. ANTONYMS disobey.CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD honor, deference, homage, obeisance, reverence The biblical Ten Commandments include the instruction “honor thy father and mother.” But what does honor entail? While all of these nouns describe the respect or esteem that one shows to another, honor implies acknowledgment of a person's right to such respect (honor one's ancestors; honor the dead). Homage is honor with praise or tributes added, and it connotes a more worshipful attitude (pay homage to the king). Reverence combines profound respect with love or devotion (he treated his wife with reverence), while deference suggests courteous regard for a superior, often by yielding to the person's status or wishes (show deference to one's elders). Obeisance is a show of honor or reverence by an act or gesture of submission or humility, such as a bow or a curtsy (the schoolchildren were instructed to pay obeisance when the Queen arrived).These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
