hot 
▶adjective
1 hot food: heated, piping hot, sizzling, steaming, roasting, boiling (hot), searing, scorching, scalding, burning, red-hot. ANTONYMS cold, chilled.
2 a hot day: very warm, balmy, summery, tropical, scorching, broiling, searing, blistering; sweltering, torrid, sultry, humid, muggy, close, boiling, baking, roasting. ANTONYMS cold, chilly.
3 she felt very hot: feverish, fevered, febrile; burning, flushed, sweaty; rare pyretic.
4 a hot chili: spicy, spiced, highly seasoned, peppery, fiery, strong; piquant, pungent, aromatic, zesty. ANTONYMS mild.
5 hot competition: fierce, intense, keen, competitive, cutthroat, dog-eat-dog, ruthless, aggressive, strong. ANTONYMS weak.
6 informal hot gossip: new, fresh, recent, late, up to date, up-to-the-minute; just out, hot off the press(es), real-time. ANTONYMS old, stale.
7 informal this band is hot: popular, in demand, sought-after, in favor; fashionable, in vogue, all the rage; informal big, in, now, hip, trendy, cool, styling/stylin'. ANTONYMS out of fashion, unpopular.
8 she thought Mark was hot: good-looking, sexy, attractive, gorgeous, handsome, beautiful; archaic comely, fair. ANTONYMS unappealing.
9 hot goods: stolen, illegally obtained, purloined, pilfered, illegal, illicit, unlawful; smuggled, fenced, bootleg, contraband. ANTONYMS lawful.
10 her dancing made him hot: aroused, sexually aroused, excited, stimulated, titillated, inflamed; informal turned on, hot to trot. ANTONYMS frigid.
PHRASES
blow hot and cold when it comes to her romantic interest in him, she blows hot and cold: vacillate, dither, shilly-shally, waver, be indecisive, change one's mind, be undecided, be uncertain, be unsure, hem and haw. hot and heavy isn't it a bit too soon for them to be so hot and heavy with each other? intense, ardent, passionate, fervid. have the hots for Liza admits that she has the hots for Ryan: be (sexually) attracted to, desire, lust after; informal have a crush on, have a thing for, be crazy about. hot on the heels/trail of the marketing mavens are hot on the heels of this latest craze: close behind, directly after, right after, straight after, hard on the heels of, following closely. hot under the collar informal See angry (sense 1). 
