issue 
▶noun
1 the committee discussed the issue: matter, matter in question, question, point, point at issue, affair, case, subject, topic; problem, bone of contention.
2 the issue of a special stamp: issuing, publication, publishing, printing; circulation, distribution.
3 the latest issue of our magazine: edition, number, copy, installment, volume, publication.
4 Law she died without issue: offspring, descendants, heirs, successors, children, progeny, family; archaic seed, fruit (of one's loins).
5 an issue of water: discharge, emission, release, outflow, outflowing, secretion, emanation, exudation, effluence; technical efflux.
▶verb
1 the mayor issued a statement: send out, put out, release, deliver, publish, announce, pronounce, broadcast, communicate, circulate, distribute, disseminate, transmit.
2 the students were issued with new uniforms: supply, provide, furnish, arm, equip, fit out, rig out; British kit out; informal fix up.
3 the smell of onion issued from the kitchen: emanate, emerge, exude, flow (out/forth), pour (out/forth); be emitted.
4 large profits might issue from the deal: result from, follow, ensue from, stem from, spring (forth) from, arise from, proceed from, come (forth) from; be the result of, be brought on/about by, be produced by.
PHRASES
at issue at issue here is what constitutes ‘art’: in question, in dispute, under discussion, under consideration, for debate. take issue with we'll get nowhere if you have to take issue with everything that anybody says: disagree with, be in dispute with, be in contention with, be at variance with, be at odds with, argue with, quarrel with; challenge, dispute, (call into) question. REFLECTIONS Jean Strouseissues In a therapy-saturated culture, issues has come to mean ‘problems.’ It started out referring to neurotic problems, as in he's got father issues, or, not even requiring an adjective, she has issues, then devolved into the general: I'm late because I had parking issues. A New York Times article in January 2004 described a brown-headed cowbird that apparently can't sing and engage in visual courtship display at the same time as having multitasking issues. In the software industry, issues is a euphemism for ‘bugs’: rather than acknowledge a bug in one of its products, a company might say, this is a known issue.Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
