keep 
▶verb
1 you should keep all the old forms: retain, hold on to, keep hold of, retain possession of, keep possession of, not part with; save, store, conserve, put aside, set aside; informal hang on to, stash away. ANTONYMS throw away, lose.
2 I tried to keep calm: remain, continue to be, stay, carry on being, persist in being.
3 he keeps talking about the Super Bowl: persist in, keep on, carry on, continue, do something constantly. ANTONYMS stop, give up.
4 I won't keep you long: detain, keep waiting, delay, hold up, retard, slow down.
5 most people kept the rules 
he had to keep his promise: comply with, obey, observe, conform to, abide by, adhere to, stick to, heed, follow; fulfill, carry out, act on, make good, honor, keep to, stand by. ANTONYMS disobey, break.
6 keeping the old traditions: preserve, keep alive/up, keep going, carry on, perpetuate, maintain, uphold, sustain. ANTONYMS discard, abandon.
7 that's where we keep the linen: store, house, stow, put (away), place, deposit.
8 she keeps rabbits: breed, rear, raise, farm; own, have as a pet.
9 God keep you 
keep them from harm: look after, care for, take care of, mind, watch over; preserve, protect, keep safe, shield, shelter, safeguard, defend, guard. ANTONYMS neglect, endanger.
10 she kept their whereabouts from us: keep secret, keep hidden, hide, conceal, withhold.
11 worry kept her from sleeping: prevent, stop, restrain, hold back. ANTONYMS enable, allow.
▶noun money to pay for his keep: maintenance, upkeep, sustenance, board, room and board, lodging, food, livelihood.
PHRASES
keep at she's determined to keep at her studies until she passes the bar exam: persevere with/in/at, persist in/with, keep going with, carry on with, press on with, work away at, continue with; informal stick at, plug away at, hammer away at. keep something back
1 she kept back some of the money: reserve, keep in reserve, put aside/by, set aside; retain, hold back, hold on to, not part with; informal stash away.
2 she kept back the details: withhold, keep secret, keep hidden, conceal, suppress, keep quiet about.
3 she could hardly keep back her tears: suppress, stifle, choke back, fight back, hold back/in, repress, keep in check, contain, smother, swallow, bite back. keep from it's hard to keep from smoking: refrain from, stop oneself, restrain oneself from, prevent oneself from, forbear from, avoid. keep off
1 we ask that you please keep off the playing field: stay off, not enter, keep away from, stay away from, not trespass on.
2 Maud tried to keep off political subjects: avoid, steer clear of, stay away from, evade, dodge, sidestep, bypass, skirt around; informal duck.
3 you should keep off alcohol: abstain from, do without, refrain from, give up, forgo, not touch; informal swear off; formal forswear. keep on they kept on working 
despite our exhaustion, we agreed to keep on: continue, go on, carry on, persist in, persevere in; soldier on, struggle on, keep going. keep something up keep up the good work: continue (with), keep on with, keep going with, carry on with, persist with, persevere with. keep up with she walked fast to keep up with them: keep pace with, keep abreast of; match, equal.
