lead
1 
▶verb
1 Michelle led them into the house: guide, conduct, show, show the way, lead the way, usher, escort, steer, pilot, shepherd; accompany, see, take. ANTONYMS follow.
2 he led us to believe they were lying: cause, induce, prompt, move, persuade, influence, drive, condition, make; incline, dispose, predispose.
3 this might lead to job losses: result in, cause, bring on/about, give rise to, be the cause of, make happen, create, produce, occasion, effect, generate, contribute to, promote; provoke, stir up, spark off, arouse, foment, instigate; involve, necessitate, entail; formal effectuate. ANTONYMS prevent.
4 he led a march to the city center: be at the head of, be at the front of, head, spearhead; precede. ANTONYMS follow.
5 she led a coalition of radicals: be the leader of, be the head of, preside over, head, command, govern, rule, be in charge of, be in command of, be in control of, run, control, direct, be at the helm of; administer, organize, manage; reign over, be in power over; informal head up. ANTONYMS serve in.
6 the home team was leading at halftime: be ahead, be winning, be (out) in front, be in the lead, be first, be on top. ANTONYMS trail.
7 the champion was leading the field: be at the front of, be first in, be ahead of, head; outrun, outstrip, outpace, leave behind, draw away from; outdo, outclass, beat; informal leave standing. ANTONYMS trail.
8 I just want to lead a normal life: experience, have, live, spend.
▶noun
1 I was in the lead early on: the leading position, first place, the van, the vanguard; ahead, in front, winning.
2 they took the lead in the personal computer market: first position, forefront, primacy, dominance, superiority, ascendancy; preeminence, supremacy, advantage, upper hand, whip hand.
3 playing the lead: leading role, star/starring role, title role, principal part; principal character, male lead, female lead, leading man, leading lady.
4 a Labrador on a lead: leash, tether, rope, chain, cord.
5 detectives were following up a new lead: clue, hint, tip, tip-off, suggestion, indication, sign, pointer.
▶adjective the lead position: leading, first, top, foremost, front, head; chief, principal, main, premier.
PHRASES
lead something off let's lead off the meeting with a few words from Mr. Diaz: begin, start (off), commence, open; informal kick off. lead someone on were you leading her on with that talk about marriage? deceive, mislead, delude, hoodwink, dupe, trick, fool, pull the wool over someone's eyes; informal string along, lead up the garden path, take for a ride, fleece, inveigle, hornswoggle, scam. lead the way
1 he led the way to the kitchen: guide someone, conduct someone, show someone the way.
2 our corporation is leading the way in new technologies: take the initiative, break (new) ground, blaze a trail, prepare the way, be at the forefront. lead up to perhaps these informal meetings will lead up to a more formal relationship: prepare the way for, pave the way for, lay the groundwork for, set the scene for, work up/around to.
