line
1 
▶noun
1 he drew a line through the name: dash, rule, bar, score; underline, underscore, stroke, slash; technical stria, striation.
2 there were lines around her eyes: wrinkle, furrow, crease, groove, crinkle, crow's foot, laugh line.
3 (usually lines) the classic lines of the exterior: contour, outline, configuration, shape, figure, delineation, profile.
4 the line between Canada and the United States: boundary, boundary line, limit, border, borderline, demarcation line, dividing line, edge, margin, perimeter, frontier.
5 (usually lines) behind enemy lines: position, formation, defense, fieldwork, front (line); trenches.
6 he put the wash on the line: clothesline; cord, rope, string, cable, wire, thread, twine, strand.
7 they waited in a line: row, file, lineup, queue.
8 a line of figures: column, row.
9 a long line of bad decisions: series, sequence, succession, chain, string, set, cycle.
10 a line of flight: course, route, track, path, way, run.
11 they took a very tough line with the industry 
the party line: course of action, course, procedure, technique, tactic, tack; policy, practice, approach, plan, program, position, stance, philosophy.
12 her own line of thought: course, direction, drift, tack, tendency, trend.
13 informal he fed me a line: story, piece of fiction, fabrication; informal spiel.
14 (lines) he couldn't remember his lines: words, part, script, speech.
15 my line is engineering: line of work, work, line of business, business, field, trade, occupation, employment, profession, job, career, specialty, forte, province, department, sphere, area, area of expertise.
16 a new line of cologne: brand, kind, sort, type, variety, make.
17 a noble line: ancestry, family, parentage, birth, descent, lineage, extraction, genealogy, roots, origin, background; stock, bloodline, pedigree.
18 the opening line of the poem: sentence, phrase, clause, utterance; passage, extract, quotation, quote, citation.
19 I should drop Ralph a line: note, letter, card, postcard, email, message, communication, missive, memorandum; correspondence, word; informal memo; formal epistle.
▶verb
1 her face was lined with age: furrow, wrinkle, crease, pucker, mark with lines.
2 the driveway was lined by poplars: border, edge, fringe, bound, rim.
PHRASES
draw the line at we draw the line at keg parties: stop short of/at, refuse to accept, balk at; object to, take issue with, take exception to. in line
1 they stood in line for food: in a row, in a file, in a lineup; chiefly British in a queue.
2 the advertisements are in line with the editorial style: in agreement, in accord, in accordance, in harmony, in step, in compliance.
3 he stood in line with the target: in alignment, aligned, level, at the same height; side by side.
4 the referee kept him in line: under control, in order, in check. in line for Laine is in line for a senior position: a candidate for, in the running for, on the short list for, being considered for. get a line on were you able to get a line on their upcoming projects? learn something about, find out about, be informed about, hear about, hear tell about. lay it on the line go ahead, lay it on the line, I can take it: speak frankly, speak honestly, be direct, pull no punches, be blunt, not mince one's words, call a spade a spade; informal give it to someone straight. line up
1 line up for inspection: form a line, get into rows/columns, fall in; chiefly British queue up; Military dress.
2 they lined them up against the wall: arrange in lines, put in rows, arrange in columns, align, range; Military dress.
3 we've lined up an all-star cast: assemble, put together, organize, prepare, arrange, prearrange, fix up; book, schedule. on the line a firefighter's life is on the line every day: at risk, in danger, in jeopardy, endangered, imperiled. toe the line the choice is yours: toe the line or pack your bags: conform, obey the rules, observe the rules, comply with the rules, abide by the rules, follow the rules; informal play by the rules.
