look 
▶verb
1 Mrs. Wright looked at him: glance at, gaze at, stare at, gape at, peer at; peep at, peek, take a look at; watch, observe, view, regard, examine, inspect, eye, scan, scrutinize, survey, study, contemplate, consider, take in, ogle; informal take a gander at, rubberneck, goggle, give someone/something a/the once-over, get a load of, eyeball; literary behold. ANTONYMS ignore.
2 her room looked out on Broadway: command a view of, face, overlook, front.
3 they looked shocked: seem, seem to be, appear, appear to be, have the appearance/air of being, give the impression of being, give every appearance/indication of being, strike someone as being.
▶noun
1 here's the latest analysis—let's give it a look: glance, view, examination, study, inspection, observation, scan, survey, peep, peek, glimpse, gaze, stare; informal eyeful, gander, look-see, once-over, squint.
2 the look on her face: expression, mien.
3 that rustic look: appearance, air, aspect, bearing, cast, manner, mien, demeanor, facade, impression, effect.
4 this year's look: fashion, style, vogue, mode.
PHRASES
look after Janie looks after our goats and llamas: take care of, care for, attend to, minister to, tend, mind, keep an eye on, keep safe, be responsible for, protect; nurse, babysit, house-sit. look back on those songs really make me look back on my college days: reflect on, think back to, remember, recall, reminisce about, harken back to. look down on a lot of people teased me and looked down on me: disdain, scorn, regard with contempt, look down one's nose at, sneer at, despise. look for he's looking for a book about begonias: search for, hunt for, try to find, seek, try to track down, forage for, scout out, quest for/after. look forward to I look forward to Rebecca's call: await with pleasure, eagerly anticipate, lick one's lips over, be unable to wait for, count the days until. look into they promised to look into our complaints: investigate, inquire into, ask questions about, go into, probe, explore, follow up, research, study, examine; informal check out, give something a/the once-over, scope out. look like in his overcoat he looks like an undertaker: resemble, bear a resemblance to, look similar to, take after, have the look of, have the appearance of, remind one of, make one think of; informal be the spitting image of, be a dead ringer for. look on/upon people he looked on as friends took advantage of him: regard, consider, think of, deem, judge, see, view, count, reckon. look out you'll get burned if you don't look out: beware, watch out, be on (one's) guard, be alert, be wary, be vigilant, be careful, take care, be cautious, pay attention, take heed, keep one's eyes open/peeled, keep an eye out; watch your step. look something over he looked over the engineer's reports: inspect, examine, scan, cast an eye over, take stock of, vet, view, look through, peruse, read through, check out; informal give something a/the once-over, eyeball. look to
1 we must look to the future: consider, think about, turn one's thoughts to, focus on, take heed of, pay attention to, attend to, address, mind, heed.
2 they look to the government for help: turn to, resort to, have recourse to, fall back on, rely on. look up
1 things are looking up: improve, get better, pick up, come along/on, progress, make progress, make headway, perk up, rally, take a turn for the better.
2 she looked up his number: search for, look for, try to find. look someone up informal I'll look you up next time I'm in Tacoma: go to visit, pay a visit to, call on, go to see, look in on, visit with, go see; informal drop in on, drop by, pop by. look up to some of the more self-centered ballplayers resent the responsibility of having thousands of kids look up to them: admire, have a high opinion of, think highly of, hold in high regard, regard highly, rate highly, respect, esteem, value, venerate.
