love 
▶noun
1 his friendship with Helen grew into love: deep affection, fondness, tenderness, warmth, intimacy, attachment, endearment; devotion, adoration, doting, idolization, worship; passion, ardor, desire, lust, yearning, infatuation, besottedness. ANTONYMS hatred.
2 her love for fashion 
a love of good food: liking of/for, enjoyment of, appreciation of/for, taste for, delight for/in, relish of, passion for, zeal for, appetite for, zest for, enthusiasm for, keenness for, fondness for, soft spot for, weakness for, bent for, proclivity for, inclination for, disposition for, partiality for, predilection for, penchant for.
3 their love for their fellow human beings: compassion, care, caring, regard, solicitude, concern, friendliness, friendship, kindness, charity, goodwill, sympathy, kindliness, altruism, unselfishness, philanthropy, benevolence, fellow feeling, humanity.
4 he was her one true love: beloved, loved one, love of one's life, dear, dearest, dear one, darling, sweetheart, sweet, angel, honey; lover, inamorato, inamorata, amour, paramour.
5 their love will survive: relationship, love affair, romance, liaison, affair of the heart, amour.
6 my mother sends her love: best wishes, regards, good wishes, greetings, kind/kindest regards.
▶verb
1 she loves him: care very much for, feel deep affection for, hold very dear, adore, think the world of, be devoted to, dote on, idolize, worship; be in love with, be infatuated with, be smitten with, be besotted with; informal be mad/crazy/nuts/wild about, have a crush on, carry a torch for. ANTONYMS hate.
2 Laura loved painting: like very much, delight in, enjoy greatly, have a passion for, take great pleasure in, derive great pleasure from, relish, savor; have a weakness for, be partial to, have a soft spot for, have a taste for, be taken with; informal get a kick out of, have a thing about, be mad/crazy/nuts/wild about, be hooked on, get off on. ANTONYMS hate.
PHRASES
fall in love with she didn't mean to fall in love with him: become infatuated with, give/lose one's heart to; informal fall for, be bowled over by, be swept off one's feet by, develop a crush on. in love with he's in love with Gillian: infatuated with, besotted with, enamored of, smitten with, consumed with desire for; captivated by, bewitched by, enthralled by, entranced by, moonstruck by; devoted to, doting on; informal mad/crazy/nuts/wild about. 
WORD LINKS
love amatory relating to loveWord Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.REFLECTIONS Stephin Merrittlove, lover The rhymes with love are limited to above, dove, glove, of, and shove. Romance is much better; at least it rhymes with dance. “The skies above Contain a dove Wearing the glove I'm dreaming of; To rhyme with love, Words you must shove.” So don't burden us with any more strained rhymes; either use the word in the middle of a line (I love you) or use a different word. This is why we have a thesaurus. And despite centuries of precedent, lover does not rhyme with another. In our stupid language, the only rhymable word for lover that you can really use much is beau, so let's all use it in speech every day till it sounds less dated. Remember: beau.Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
