mark 
▶noun
1 a dirty mark: blemish, streak, spot, fleck, dot, blot, stain, smear, speck, speckle, blotch, smudge, smut, fingermark, fingerprint; bruise, discoloration; birthmark; informal splotch; technical stigma.
2 a punctuation mark: symbol, sign, character; diacritic.
3 books bearing the mark of a well-known bookseller: logo, seal, stamp, imprint, symbol, emblem, device, insignia, badge, brand, trademark, monogram, hallmark, logotype, watermark.
4 unemployment passed the three million mark: point, level, stage, degree.
5 a mark of respect: sign, token, symbol, indication, badge, emblem; symptom, evidence, proof.
6 the war left its mark on him: impression, imprint, traces; effect, impact, influence.
7 the mark of a civilized society: characteristic, feature, trait, attribute, quality, hallmark, calling card, badge, stamp, property, indicator.
8 he got good marks for math: grade, grading, rating, score, percentage.
9 the bullet missed its mark: target, goal, aim, bullseye; objective, object, end.
▶verb
1 be careful not to mark the paintwork: discolor, stain, smear, smudge, streak, blotch, blemish; dirty, pockmark, bruise; informal splotch; literary smirch.
2 her possessions were clearly marked: put one's name on, name, initial, label, identify; hallmark, watermark, brand.
3 I've marked the relevant passages: indicate, label, flag, tick, check off, highlight; show, identify, designate, delineate, denote, specify.
4 a festival to mark the town's 200th anniversary: celebrate, observe, recognize, acknowledge, keep, honor, solemnize, pay tribute to, salute, commemorate, remember, memorialize.
5 the incidents marked a new phase in their campaign: represent, signify, be a sign of, indicate, herald.
6 his style is marked by simplicity and concision: characterize, distinguish, identify, typify, brand, signalize, stamp.
7 I have a pile of essays to mark: assess, evaluate, grade, appraise, correct.
8 it'll cause trouble, you mark my words! take heed of, heed, listen to, take note of, pay attention to, attend to, note, mind, bear in mind, take into consideration.
PHRASES
make one's mark she intends to make her mark in Hollywood: be successful, distinguish oneself, succeed, be a success, prosper, get ahead, make good; informal make it, make the grade. mark down the prices will be marked down after Christmas: reduce, decrease, lower, cut, put down, discount; informal slash. mark up they were accused of marking up the cost before offering a discount: increase, raise, up, put up, hike (up), escalate; informal jack up. quick off the mark an elite force that was more quick off the mark than any fighting element in the sector: alert, quick, quick-witted, bright, clever, perceptive, sharp, sharp-witted, observant, wide awake, on one's toes; informal on the ball, quick on the uptake. wide of the mark his answer was wide of the mark: inaccurate, incorrect, wrong, erroneous, off target, out, mistaken, misguided, misinformed.
