open 
▶adjective
1 the door's open: not shut, not closed, unlocked, unbolted, unlatched, off the latch, unfastened, unsecured; ajar, gaping, wide open, yawning. ANTONYMS closed, shut.
2 a blue silk shirt, open at the neck: unfastened, not done up, undone, loose; unbuttoned, unzipped, unbuckled, untied, unlaced.
3 the main roads are open: clear, passable, navigable, unblocked, unobstructed. ANTONYMS blocked, impassable.
4 open countryside 
open spaces: unenclosed, rolling, sweeping, extensive, wide open, unfenced, exposed, unsheltered; spacious, airy, uncrowded, uncluttered; undeveloped, unbuilt-up. ANTONYMS enclosed, developed.
5 a map was open beside him: spread out, unfolded, unfurled, unrolled; extended, stretched out. ANTONYMS closed (up), folded.
6 the bank wasn't open: open for business, open to the public. ANTONYMS closed.
7 the position is still open: available, vacant, free, unfilled; informal up for grabs. ANTONYMS unavailable, filled.
8 the system is open to abuse: vulnerable to, subject to, susceptible to, liable to, exposed to, an easy target for, at risk of, permitting of. ANTONYMS immune.
9 she was open about her feelings: frank, candid, honest, forthcoming, communicative, forthright, direct, unreserved, plain-spoken, outspoken, straightforward, blunt, not afraid to call a spade a spade; informal upfront; archaic free-spoken. ANTONYMS secretive, withdrawn.
10 open hostility: overt, obvious, patent, manifest, palpable, conspicuous, plain, undisguised, unconcealed, clear, apparent, evident; blatant, flagrant, barefaced, brazen. ANTONYMS concealed.
11 the case is still open: unresolved, undecided, unsettled, yet to be settled, up in the air; open to debate, open for discussion, arguable, debatable, moot. ANTONYMS resolved, concluded.
12 an open mind: impartial, unbiased, unprejudiced, objective, disinterested, nonpartisan, nondiscriminatory, neutral, dispassionate, detached. ANTONYMS biased, one-sided.
13 I'm open to suggestions: receptive, amenable, willing to listen, ready to listen, responsive.
14 what other options are open to us? available, accessible, on hand, obtainable.
15 an open meeting: public, general, unrestricted, nonexclusive, nonrestrictive. ANTONYMS private.
▶verb
1 she opened the front door: unfasten, unlatch, unlock, unbolt, unbar; throw wide. ANTONYMS close, shut.
2 Katherine opened the parcel: unwrap, undo, untie, unseal. ANTONYMS wrap, seal.
3 shall I open another bottle? uncork, broach, crack (open). ANTONYMS seal, cork.
4 Adam opened the map: spread out, unfold, unfurl, unroll, straighten out; extend, stretch out. ANTONYMS close, fold up.
5 he opened his heart to her: reveal, uncover, expose, lay bare, bare, pour out, disclose, divulge.
6 we're hoping to open next month: open for business, start trading, set up shop; informal hang out one's shingle.
7 Valerie opened the meeting: begin, start, commence, initiate, set in motion, launch, get going, get underway, get the ball rolling, get off the ground; inaugurate; informal kick off, get the show on the road. ANTONYMS conclude, end.
8 the lounge opens on to a balcony: give access to, lead to, be connected to, communicate with; face, overlook, command a view of.
WORD LINKS
open agoraphobia irrational fear of open or public placesWord Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.
