opposite 
▶adjective
1 the opposite page: facing, opposing, reverse.
2 opposite views: conflicting, contrasting, incompatible, irreconcilable, antithetical, contradictory, clashing, contrary, at variance, at odds, different, differing, divergent, dissimilar, unalike, disagreeing, opposed, opposing, poles apart, polar. ANTONYMS similar, same, identical.
3 opposite sides in a war: rival, opposing, enemy. ANTONYMS same.
▶preposition they sit opposite one another: facing, face to face with, across from; informal eyeball to eyeball with; archaic fronting.
▶noun the opposite was also true: reverse, converse, antithesis, contrary, inverse, obverse, antipode; the other side of the coin; informal flip side.REFLECTIONS See sanction Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD opposite, antithetical, contradictory,contrary, reverse All of these adjectives are usually applied to abstractions and are used to describe ideas, statements, qualities, forces, etc., that are so far apart as to seem irreconcilable. Opposite refers to ideas or things that are symmetrically opposed in position, direction, or character—in other words, that are set against each other in such a way that the contrast or conflict between them is highlighted (the two groups gathered on opposite sides of the street). Contradictory goes a little further, implying that if one of two opposing statements, propositions, or principles is true, the other must be false (he assured us the fee would be under $500, but his partner gave us contradictory information). Two contradictory elements are mutually exclusive; for example, alive and dead are contradictory terms because logically they cannot be applied to the same thing. Antithetical implies that the two things being contrasted are diametrically opposed—as far apart or as different from each other as is possible (they debated the antithetical theories of creationism and evolution). Contrary adds connotations of conflict or antagonism (their discussion was hindered by his contrary remarks). Reverse applies to that which moves or faces in the opposite direction (he scribbled something on the reverse side of her business card).These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
