place 
▶noun
1 an ideal place for dinner: location, site, spot, setting, position, situation, area, region, locale; venue; technical locus.
2 foreign places: country, state, area, region, town, city; locality, district; literary clime.
3 a place of her own: home, house, flat, apartment; accommodations, property, pied-à-terre; rooms, quarters; informal pad, digs; formal residence, abode, dwelling (place), domicile, habitation.
4 if I were in your place, I'd sell now: situation, position, circumstances; informal shoes.
5 a place was reserved for her: seat, chair, space.
6 I offered him a place in the company: job, position, post, appointment, situation, office; employment.
7 I know my place: status, position, standing, rank, niche; dated estate, station.
8 it was not her place to sort it out: responsibility, duty, job, task, role, function, concern, affair, charge; right, privilege, prerogative.
▶verb
1 books were placed on the table: put (down), set (down), lay, deposit, position, plant, rest, stand, station, situate, leave; informal stick, dump, park, plonk, pop, plunk.
2 the trust you placed in me: put, lay, set, invest.
3 a survey placed the company sixth: rank, order, grade, class, classify, categorize; put, set, assign.
4 Joe couldn't quite place her: identify, recognize, remember, put a name to, pin down; locate, pinpoint.
5 we were placed with foster parents: house with, billet to; allocate to, assign to, appoint to.
PHRASES
in the first place in the first place, you're not old enough: initially, at first, at the start, at the outset, in/at the beginning, in the first instance, to begin with, to start with, originally. 
PHRASES
in place
1 the veil was held in place by pearls: in position, in situ.
2 the plans are in place: ready, set up, all set, established, arranged, in order. in place of in place of fresh flowers, use sprays of dried lavender: instead of, rather than, as a substitute for, as a replacement for, in exchange for, in lieu of; in someone's stead. out of place
1 she never had a hair out of place: out of position, out of order, in disarray, disarranged, in a mess, messy, topsy-turvy, muddled.
2 he said something out of place: inappropriate, unsuitable, unseemly, improper, untoward, out of keeping, unbecoming, wrong.
3 she seemed out of place at the literary parties: incongruous, out of one's element, like a fish out of water; uncomfortable, uneasy. put someone in their place Marsha's father-in-law finally spoke up and put that hateful woman in her place: humiliate, take down a peg or two, deflate, crush, squash, humble; informal cut down to size, settle someone's hash, make someone eat crow. take place the site where the crash took place: happen, occur, come about, transpire, crop up, materialize, arise, go down; literary come to pass, befall, betide. take the place of I know I'll never be able to take the place of your father: replace, stand in for, substitute for, act for, fill in for, cover for, relieve.
