polish 
▶verb
1 I polished his shoes: shine, wax, buff, rub up/down; gloss, burnish; varnish, oil, glaze, lacquer, japan, shellac.
2 polish up your essay: perfect, refine, improve, hone, enhance; brush up, revise, edit, correct, rewrite, go over, touch up; informal clean up.
▶noun
1 furniture polish: wax, glaze, varnish; lacquer, japan, shellac.
2 a good surface polish: shine, gloss, luster, sheen, sparkle, patina, finish.
3 his polish made him stand out: sophistication, refinement, urbanity, suaveness, elegance, style, grace, finesse, cultivation, civility, gentility, breeding, courtesy, (good) manners; informal class.
PHRASES
polish off informal
1 he polished off an apple pie: eat, finish, consume, devour, guzzle, wolf down, down, bolt; drink up, drain, quaff, gulp (down), binge on, gorge on; informal stuff oneself with, put away, scoff, shovel down, pig out on, swill, knock back, scarf (down/up).
2 the enemy tried to polish him off: destroy, finish off, dispatch, do away with, eliminate, kill, liquidate; informal bump off, knock off, do in, take out, dispose of; rub out.
3 I'll polish off the last few pages: complete, finish, deal with, accomplish, discharge, do; end, conclude, close, finalize, round off, wind up; informal wrap up, sew up. CHOOSE THE RIGHT WORD polish, gloss, luster, sheen All of these words refer to a smooth, shining, or bright surface that reflects light. If this surface is produced by rubbing or friction, the correct word is polish (the car's mirrorlike polish was the result of regular waxing and buffing). Gloss, on the other hand, suggests the hard smoothness associated with lacquered, varnished, or enameled surfaces (a high-gloss paint). Luster is associated with the light reflected from the surfaces of certain materials, such as silk or pearl (a green stone with a brilliant luster). Sheen describes a glistening or radiant brightness that is also associated with specific materials (her hair had a rich, velvety sheen).These notes show fine distinctions in meaning between closely related synonyms to help you find the best word.
