reason 
▶noun
1 the main reason for his decision: cause, ground(s), basis, rationale; motive, motivation, purpose, point, aim, intention, objective, goal; explanation, justification, argument, defense, vindication, excuse, pretext.
2 postmodern voices railing against reason: rationality, logic, logical thought, reasoning, cognition; formal ratiocination.
3 he was losing his reason: sanity, mind, mental faculties; senses, wits; informal marbles.
4 he continues, against reason, to love her: good sense, good judgment, common sense, wisdom, sagacity, reasonableness.
▶verb
1 a young child is unable to reason: think rationally, think logically, use one's common sense, use one's head/brain; formal cogitate, ratiocinate.
2 Scott reasoned that Annabel might be ill: calculate, come to the conclusion, conclude, reckon, think, judge, deduce, infer, surmise; informal figure.
3 she tried to reason with her husband: bring around, coax, persuade, prevail on, convince, make someone see the light.
PHRASES
by reason of formal by reason of mental illness, he will not be held in contempt of court: because of, on account of, as a result of, owing to, due to, by virtue of, thanks to. reason something out we finally reasoned out the cryptic message in chapter twelve: work out, think through, make sense of, get to the bottom of, puzzle out; informal figure out. with reason he was anxious, with reason, about his own political survival: justifiably, justly, legitimately, rightly, reasonably. 
WORD LINKS
reason rational relating to reasonWord Links sections supply words that are related to the headword but do not normally appear in a thesaurus because they are not actual synonyms.
USAGE
the reason why, the reason is because
1 The construction the reason why … has been objected to on the grounds that the subordinate clause should express a statement, using a that clause, not imply a question with a why clause: the reason (that) I decided not to phone, rather than the reason why I decided not to phone. The reason why has been called a redundancy to be avoided, but it is a mild one, and idiomatic.
2 An objection is also made to the construction the reason is because, as in the reason I didn't phone is because my mother has been ill. The objection is made on the grounds that either 'because' or 'the reason' is redundant; it is better to use the word that instead (the reason I didn't phone is that …) or rephrase altogether (I didn't phone because …). Nevertheless, both the above usages are well established and, although they may be inelegant, they are generally accepted in standard English.Usage notes show additional guidance on finer points of English usage.
