run 
▶verb
1 she ran across the road: sprint, race, dart, rush, dash, hasten, hurry, scurry, scamper, bolt, fly, gallop, career, charge, shoot, hurtle, speed, zoom, go like lightning, go hell-bent for leather, go like the wind, go like a bat out of hell; jog, trot; informal tear, pelt, scoot, hotfoot it, leg it, belt, zip, whip, bomb, hightail it, barrel.
2 the robbers turned and ran: flee, run away, run off, run for it, take flight, make off, take off, take to one's heels, make a break for it, bolt, make one's getaway, escape; informal beat it, clear off, clear out, vamoose, skedaddle, split, leg it, scram, light out, take a powder, make tracks.
3 he ran in the marathon: compete, take part, participate.
4 a shiver ran down my spine: go, pass, slide, move, travel.
5 he ran his eye down the list: cast, pass, skim, flick.
6 the road runs the length of the valley: extend, stretch, reach, continue.
7 water ran from the eaves: flow, pour, stream, gush, flood, cascade, roll, course, spill, trickle, drip, dribble, leak.
8 a bus runs to Sorrento: travel, go.
9 I'll run you home: drive, take, bring, ferry, chauffeur, give someone a ride/lift.
10 he runs a mail-order company: be in charge of, manage, direct, control, head, govern, supervise, superintend, oversee; operate, conduct, own.
11 it's expensive to run a car: maintain, keep, own, possess, have; drive.
12 they ran some tests: carry out, do, perform, execute.
13 he left the engine running: operate, function, work, go; idle.
14 the lease runs for twenty years: be valid, last, be in effect, be operative, continue, be effective.
15 the show ran for two years: be staged, be performed, be on, be mounted, be screened.
16 he ran for president: be a candidate for, stand for, be a contender for.
17 the paper ran the story: publish, print, feature, carry, put out, release, issue.
18 they run drugs: smuggle, traffic in, deal in.
19 they were run out of town: chase, drive, hound.
▶noun
1 his morning run: sprint, jog, dash, gallop, trot.
2 she did the school run: route, journey; circuit, round, beat.
3 an unbeaten run of victories: series, succession, sequence, string, chain, streak, spell, stretch, spate.
4 a run on umbrellas: demand for, rush on.
5 they had the run of the house: free use of, unrestricted access to.
6 the usual run of movies: type, kind, sort, variety, class.
7 a dog run: enclosure, pen, coop.
8 a toboggan run: slope, track, piste, trail, slide.
9 a run in her pantyhose: rip, tear, snag, hole, pull; British ladder.
PHRASES
in the long run in the long run, the move to Spokane may be a really good thing: eventually, in the end, ultimately, when all is said and done, in the fullness of time, over the long haul, at the end of the day. on the run police report that Prentiss has been on the run since early this morning: on the loose, at large, loose; running away, fleeing, fugitive; informal AWOL, on the lam. run across we never expected to run across Mrs. Gundlach at the casino: meet, meet by chance, come across, run into, chance on/upon, stumble on/upon, happen on/upon; informal bump into. run after informal I have no intention of running after him: pursue, chase; make advances to, flirt with; informal come on to, be all over; dated set one's cap for/at. run along informal it's time for you and your pesky little friends to run along: go away, be off (with you), shoo; informal scram, buzz off, skedaddle, scat, beat it, get lost, shove off, clear off; literary begone. run around informal that creep's been running around since their honeymoon: be unfaithful, have affairs, philander; informal play the field, sleep around, fool around. run away her attacker ran away. See run (sense
2 of the verb). run away with she ran away with the championship: win easily, win hands down; informal win by a mile. run down obviously, this barn didn't start running down yesterday: decline, degenerate, go downhill, go to seed, decay, go to rack and ruin; informal go to pot, go to the dogs. run someone down
1 he was run down by a drunk driver: run over, knock down, knock over; hit, strike.
2 she ran him down in front of other people: criticize, denigrate, belittle, disparage, deprecate, find fault with; informal put down, knock, badmouth, dis; formal derogate. run for it they saw the cop car and ran for it. See run (sense
2 of the verb). run high feelings ran high: be strong, be fervent, be passionate, be intense. run in
1 heart disease runs in the family: be common in, be inherent in.
2 informal you mean they actually ran him in for littering? See arrest (sense
1 of the verb). run into
1 a car ran into his van: collide with, hit, strike, crash into, smash into, plow into, ram, impact.
2 I ran into Hugo the other day: meet, meet by chance, come across, run across, chance on/upon, stumble on/upon, happen on/upon; informal bump into.
3 we ran into a problem: experience, encounter, meet with, be faced with, be confronted with.
4 his debts run into six figures: reach, extend to, be as much as. run low supplies were running low: dwindle, diminish, become depleted, be used up, be in short supply, be tight. run off the youths ran off. See run (sense
2 of the verb). run off with informal he ran off with her money. See steal (sense
1 of the verb). run something off
1 would you run off that list for me? copy, photocopy, xerox, duplicate, print, reproduce.
2 run off some of the excess water: drain, bleed, draw off, pump out. run on
1 the call ran on for hours: continue, go on, carry on, last, keep going, stretch.
2 your mother does run on: talk incessantly, talk a lot, go on, chatter on, ramble on; informal yak, gab, run off at the mouth. run out
1 supplies ran out: be used up, dry up, be exhausted, be finished, peter out.
2 her contract ran out: expire, end, terminate, finish; lapse. run out of they ran out of their cash: use up; be out of, consume, eat up; informal be fresh out of. run out on informal she ran out on her husband. See abandon (sense
3 of the verb). run over
1 the bathwater ran over: overflow, spill over, brim over.
2 the project ran over budget: exceed, go over, overshoot, overreach.
3 he quickly ran over the story: recapitulate, repeat, run through, go over, reiterate, review; look over, read through; informal recap. run someone over he was run over by a motorbike: run down, knock down, knock over; hit, strike. run the show informal Todd always tries to run the show: be in charge, be in control, be at the helm, be in the driver's seat, be at the wheel; informal be the boss, call the shots. run through
1 they quickly ran through their money: squander, spend, fritter away, dissipate, waste, go through, consume, use up; informal blow.
2 the attitude that runs through his writing: pervade, permeate, suffuse, imbue, inform.
3 he ran through his notes: recapitulate, repeat, run over, go over, reiterate, review; look over, read through; informal recap.
4 let's run through scene three: rehearse, practice, go over, repeat; informal recap. run someone through they hung an effigy of him and ran it through with sharp sticks: stab, pierce, transfix, impale. run to
1 the bill ran to $22,000: amount to, add up to, total, come to, equal, reach, be as much as.
2 he was running to fat: tend to, become, get, grow.
