say 
▶verb
1 she felt her stomach flutter as he said her name: speak, utter, voice, pronounce, give voice to, vocalize.
2 “I must go,” she said: declare, state, announce, remark, observe, mention, comment, note, add; reply, respond, answer, rejoin; informal come out with.
3 Newall says he's innocent: claim, maintain, assert, hold, insist, contend; allege, profess; formal opine, aver.
4 I can't conjure up the words to say how I feel: express, put into words, phrase, articulate, communicate, make known, put/get across, convey, verbalize; reveal, divulge, impart, disclose; imply, suggest.
5 they sang hymns and said a prayer: recite, repeat, utter, deliver, perform, declaim, orate.
6 the clock said one twenty: indicate, show, read.
7 I'd say it's about five miles: estimate, judge, guess, hazard a guess, predict, speculate, surmise, conjecture, venture; informal reckon.
8 let's say you'd just won a million dollars: suppose, assume, imagine, presume, hypothesize, postulate, posit.
▶noun
1 everyone is entitled to their say: chance to speak, turn to speak, opinion, view, voice; informal two cents, two cents' worth.
2 don't I have any say in the matter? influence, sway, weight, voice, input, share, part.
PHRASES
that is to say they're inquiring about Miss Leslie—that is to say, they want to know if she's safe and well: in other words, to put it another way; i.e., that is, to wit, viz., namely. to say the least his performance was disappointing to say the least: to put it mildly, putting it mildly, without any exaggeration, at the very least. REFLECTIONS Michael Dirdasay, said While most writing can be improved by choosing strong and precise nouns, adjectives, and verbs, this isn't always so. When reading a novel's dialogue, we should be paying attention to what the characters say, and learn about their feelings through their words. But too many young authors overstress the verbal markers of back-and-forth speech. So we read Frank replied or Frank riposted or even Losing his temper, Frank violently expostulated. Much of the time a careful writer can set up the rhythm of a conversation so that it's always clear who's speaking and with what degree of passion. If more precise identification is needed, a simple Frank said will usually suffice, the weak and common verb scarcely intruding on the give-and-take on the page.Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
