spirit 
▶noun
1 harmony between body and spirit: soul, psyche, (inner) self, inner being, inner man/woman, mind, ego, id; Philosophy pneuma. ANTONYMS body, flesh.
2 a spirit haunts the island: ghost, presence; informal spook.
3 that's the spirit: attitude, frame of mind, way of thinking, point of view, outlook, thoughts, ideas.
4 she was in good spirits when I left: mood, frame of mind, state of mind, emotional state, humor, temper.
5 team spirit: morale, esprit de corps.
6 the spirit of the age: ethos, prevailing tendency, motivating force, essence, quintessence; atmosphere, mood, feeling, climate; attitudes, beliefs, principles, standards, ethics.
7 his spirit never failed him: courage, bravery, pluck, valor, strength of character, fortitude, backbone, mettle, stoutheartedness, determination, resolution, resolve, fight, grit; informal guts, spunk, sand, moxie.
8 they played with great spirit: enthusiasm, eagerness, keenness, liveliness, vivacity, vivaciousness, animation, energy, verve, vigor, dynamism, zest, dash, elan, panache, sparkle, exuberance, gusto, brio, pep, fervor, zeal, fire, passion; informal get-up-and-go.
9 the spirit of the law: real/true meaning, true intention, essence, substance.
10 he drinks spirits: strong liquor/drink; informal hard stuff, firewater, hooch.
PHRASES
spirit away they made up a story about having been spirited away by gypsies: whisk away/off, make off with, make disappear, run away with, abscond with, carry off, steal away, abduct, kidnap, snatch, seize. REFLECTIONS Francine Proseectoplasm I realize that this word does have a legitimate scientific usage—it's the part of the cell that lies just beneath the outer membrane—but the meaning that intrigues me has something (understandably vague and mysterious) to do with the spirits of the dead. It's the stuff ghosts are made of, or alternately, some substance that signals an active communication between spiritualist mediums and those who have, as the mediums themselves would say, passed over. A trace of ectoplasm indicated that a ghost had visited the seance. It does make you wonder about the first moment when someone decided that there was a need for such a word, and that ectoplasm would do nicely.Conversational, opinionated, and idiomatic, these Word Notes are an opportunity to see a working writer's perspective on a particular word or usage.
