star 
BrE stɑː, AmE stɑr 

A.  noun 
① Astronomy 星 xīng under the stars 在星空下 to camp out under the stars 露天宿营 to reach for the stars 有远大志向 to see stars colloquial 眼冒金星 to have stars in one's eyes 渴望成名 
② (shape) 星形 xīngxíng the walls were painted with moons and stars 墙上画着月亮和星星 
③ (celebrity) 明星 míngxīng a pop/Hollywood star 流行音乐歌星/好莱坞影星 a tennis star 网球明星 the film made him a star overnight 这部影片使他一夜成名 before noun 明星的 míngxīng de star treatment 明星级的待遇 
④ (main performer) 主角 zhǔjué ; before noun 主角的 zhǔjué de to have a star role in a play 在一部剧中担任主角 
⑤ (best of group) 最优秀者 zuì yōuxiù zhě she is the star of the class 她是班上最优秀的学生 before noun 最优秀的 zuì yōuxiù de the star performer 表现最佳者 the star prize 特等奖 
⑥ (rating mark for hotel or restaurant) 星级 xīngjí this hotel has three stars 这家旅馆是三星级的 a four-star restaurant 四星级餐馆 
⑦ (asterisk) 星号 xīnghào 
⑧ (badge of law enforcement officer) 星徽 xīnghuī 
⑨ (mark of rank on military uniform) 星章 xīngzhāng how many stars does the general have? 这位将军有几颗星？ a five-star general 五星上将 
⑩ School (award sticker) [作为表扬的] 星形贴 xīngxíngtiē I got a gold star for my work 我的作业得了一颗金星 
⑪ (white patch on an animal's forehead) 白斑 báibān 
⑫ colloquial (helpful person) 给予帮助的人 jǐyǔ bāngzhù de rén thanks! you’re a star! 谢谢！你真是个大好人！ 
⑬ (planet or constellation influencing person's fate) 星宿 xīngxiù it's written in the stars 这是命中注定的 to be born under a lucky/an unlucky star 生来命好/命不好 → lucky 
② 
B.  stars noun plural BrE colloquial (horoscope) 星象 xīngxiàng do you read your stars? 你读星象方面的内容吗？ what do my stars say? 我的星象怎么样？ 
C.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -rr-) 
① (feature) «film, play» 由…担任主角 yóu… dānrèn zhǔjué ; «director, studio» 使主演 shǐ zhǔyǎn a movie starring Leonardo DiCaprio 一部由莱昂纳多迪卡普里奥主演的电影 Hitchcock starred her in many of his films 希区柯克让她主演了他执导的多部电影 
② (mark with asterisk) 用星号标出 yòng xīnghào biāochū starred dishes on the menu are suitable for vegetarians 菜单上标有星号的菜品适合素食者 
③ (decorate) 用星形物装饰 yòng xīngxíngwù zhuāngshì sea urchins starred the pale rocks 海胆像星星一样点缀着灰白的礁石 a meadow starred with wild flowers 野花星星点点点缀其间的草地 
D.  intransitive verb(present participle etc. -rr-) 主演 zhǔyǎn he stars as Henry V 他扮演主角亨利五世 she starred with or opposite Keanu Reeves in The Matrix 她和基努里维斯搭档，在《黑客帝国》中饰演男女主角 she has a starring role in the new play 她在新剧中担任主角 
