strip 
BrE strɪp, AmE strɪp 

A.  transitive verb(present participle etc. -pp-) 
① (remove clothing from) 脱掉…的衣服 tuōdiào… de yīfu he was stripped naked/to his boxer shorts 他被扒得一丝不挂/只剩下了短裤 to be stripped to the waist 脱光上衣 to be stripped of one's clothes 衣服被脱光 
② (remove surface or parts of) 除去 chúqù deer had stripped the tree (of its bark) 鹿啃掉了树皮 the wind had stripped all the leaves from the trees 风把树上的叶子都吹落了 to strip the paint from the door 把门上的油漆刮掉 I stripped the sheets from the bed 我把床单撤了下来 they stripped all the beds 他们把床单全都撤了下来 → bare 
A. 
② 
③ (remove everything from) 使空无一物 shǐ kōng wú yī wù the thieves stripped the house bare 窃贼将房子洗劫一空 the room had been stripped of furniture 房间里的家具都搬走了 
④ (dismantle) 拆卸 chāixiè ‹machine›
⑤ (deprive) 剥夺 bōduó he was disgraced and stripped of his title 他名誉扫地，所获头衔被取消了 
⑥ (damage) 损坏…的螺纹 sǔnhuài… de luówén ‹nut, screw›; 损坏…的齿 sǔnhuài… de chǐ ‹gearwheel›
B.  intransitive verb(present participle etc. -pp-) 
① (undress) 脱掉衣服 tuōdiào yīfu to strip naked/to one's underwear 脱得一丝不挂/只剩内衣 he stripped to the waist 他脱光了上衣 
② (perform striptease) 跳脱衣舞 tiào tuōyīwǔ 
C.  noun 
① (piece) 条 tiáo a metal/paper strip, a strip of metal/paper 金属条/纸条 to cut [something] into strips 把某物切成条 to tear [somebody] off a strip, to tear a strip off [somebody] BrE colloquial 把某人骂得狗血喷头 
② (area) (of land) 狭长地带 xiácháng dìdài (of water) 带状水域 dàizhuàng shuǐyù a small strip of garden 一个狭长的小花园 the islands are separated by a narrow strip of water 岛屿之间一衣带水 
③ BrE Sport (clothes) 队服 duìfú the England strip 英格兰队队服 
④ usually singular (removal of clothes) 脱衣舞 tuōyīwǔ to do a strip 跳脱衣舞 tiào tuōyīwǔ 
⑤ (cartoon) 连环漫画 liánhuán mànhuà 
⑥ AmE (street) 商业街 shāngyèjiē Sunset Strip 日落大道商业街 PHRASAL VERBS strip away transitive verb[strip something away, strip away something] 
① (remove from surface) 除去 chúqù 
② (eliminate) 揭除 jiēchú the movie aims to strip away the lies surrounding the president's life 电影旨在揭穿有关这位总统生平的种种谎言 strip down 
A.  transitive verb[strip something down, strip down something] 
① (dismantle) 拆卸 chāixiè ‹machine›the soldier stripped down his rifle 那名士兵拆开了他的步枪 
② (remove applied layer or coverings from) 除去…的覆盖物 chúqù… de fùgàiwù to strip a door down 刮掉门上的油漆 strip the bed down and remake it 把床单撤下来，重新铺床 
B.  intransitive verb 脱掉衣服 tuōdiào yīfu to strip down to one's underpants 脱得只剩内裤 strip off 
A.  transitive verb[strip something off, strip off something] 
① (remove from body) 脱掉 tuōdiào ‹clothes›
② (remove from surface) 除去 chúqù squirrels had stripped the bark off the tree 松鼠把树皮啃掉了 to strip off the old wallpaper 把旧墙纸刮掉 I stripped all the sheets off the beds 我把床单全都撤了下来 
B.  intransitive verb 脱掉衣服 tuōdiào yīfu strip out transitive verb[strip something out, strip out something] 
① (remove all of) 全部去除 quánbù qùchú we had to strip out all the old wiring and start again 我们只好把原有的线路全部拆除，从头再来 
② (remove everything from) 使空无一物 shǐ kōng wú yī wù they stripped out the interior of the buildings and redesigned them 他们将房屋内部清空，重新进行了设计 
③ Finance (disregard) 对…忽略不计 duì… hūlüè bù jì ‹cost, asset›
