take 
▶verb
1 she took his hand: lay hold of, get hold of; grasp, grip, clasp, clutch, grab. ANTONYMS give.
2 he took an envelope from his pocket: remove, pull, draw, withdraw, extract, fish. ANTONYMS give.
3 a passage taken from my book: extract, quote, cite, excerpt, derive, abstract, copy, cull.
4 she took a little wine: drink, imbibe; consume, swallow, eat, ingest.
5 many prisoners were taken: capture, seize, catch, arrest, apprehend, take into custody; carry off, abduct. ANTONYMS liberate, free.
6 someone's taken my car: steal, remove, appropriate, make off with, pilfer, purloin; informal filch, swipe, snaffle, pinch. ANTONYMS give back, restore.
7 take four from the total: subtract, deduct, remove; discount; informal knock off, minus. ANTONYMS add.
8 all the seats had been taken: occupy, use, utilize, fill, hold; reserve, engage; informal bag.
9 I have taken a room nearby: rent, lease, hire, charter; reserve, book, engage.
10 I took the job: accept, undertake, take on. ANTONYMS refuse, turn down.
11 I'd take this over the other option: pick, choose, select; prefer, favor, opt for, vote for. ANTONYMS refuse, turn down.
12 take, for instance, Altoona: consider, contemplate, ponder, think about, mull over, examine, study, meditate over, ruminate about.
13 she took his temperature: ascertain, determine, establish, measure, find out, discover; calculate, compute, evaluate, rate, assess, appraise, gauge.
14 he took notes: write, note (down), jot (down), scribble, scrawl, record, register, document, minute.
15 I took the package to Wilmington: bring, carry, bear, transport, convey, move, transfer, ferry; informal cart, tote.
16 the police took her home: escort, accompany, help, assist, show, lead, guide, see, usher, shepherd, convey.
17 he took the train: travel on/by, journey on, go via; use.
18 the town takes its name from the lake: derive, get, obtain, come by, acquire, pick up.
19 she took the prize for best speaker: receive, obtain, gain, get, acquire, collect, accept, be awarded; secure, come by, win, earn, pick up, carry off; informal land, bag, net, scoop.
20 I took the chance to postpone it: act on, take advantage of, capitalize on, use, exploit, make the most of, leap at, jump at, pounce on, seize, grasp, grab, accept. ANTONYMS ignore, miss. 21 he took great pleasure in painting: derive, draw, acquire, obtain, get, gain, extract, procure; experience, undergo, feel. 22 Liz took the news badly: receive, respond to, react to, meet, greet; deal with, cope with. 23 do you take me for a fool? regard as, consider to be, view as, see as, believe to be, reckon to be, imagine to be, deem to be. 24 I take it that you are hungry: assume, presume, suppose, imagine, expect, reckon, gather, dare say, trust, surmise, deduce, guess, conjecture, fancy, suspect. 25 I take your point: understand, grasp, get, comprehend, apprehend, see, follow; accept, appreciate, acknowledge, sympathize with, agree with. 26 Shirley was very taken with him: captivate, enchant, charm, delight, attract, beguile, enthrall, entrance, infatuate, dazzle; amuse, divert, entertain; informal tickle someone's fancy. 27 I can't take much more: endure, bear, tolerate, stand, put up with, abide, stomach, accept, allow, countenance, support, shoulder; formal brook; archaic suffer. 28 applicants must take a test: carry out, do, complete, write, conduct, perform, execute, discharge, accomplish, fulfill. 29 I took drama, French, and art history: study, learn, have lessons in; take up, pursue; informal do. 30 the journey took six hours: last, continue for, go on for, carry on for; require, call for, need, necessitate, entail, involve. 31 it would take an expert to know that: require, need, necessitate, demand, call for, entail, involve. 32 I take size six shoes: wear, use; require, need. 33 the dye did not take: be effective, take effect, hold, root, be productive, be effectual, be useful; work, operate, succeed, function; formal be efficacious.
▶noun
1 the whalers' commercial take: catch, haul, bag, yield, net.
2 the state's tax take: revenue, income, gain, profit; takings, proceeds, returns, receipts, winnings, pickings, earnings, spoils; purse.
3 a clapperboard for the start of each take: scene, sequence, film clip, clip.
4 a fresh take on gender issues: view of, reading of, version of, interpretation of, understanding of, account of, analysis of, approach to.
PHRASES
take after Sandy takes after his adventurous Uncle Lenny: resemble, look like; remind one of, make one think of, recall, conjure up, suggest, evoke; informal favor, be a chip off the old block. take apart
1 we took the machine apart: dismantle, pull to pieces, pull apart, disassemble, break up; tear down, demolish, destroy, wreck.
2 informal the scene was taken apart by the director. See criticize. take someone back
1 the dream took me back to Vienna: evoke, remind one of, conjure up, summon up; echo, suggest.
2 I will never take her back: be reconciled (to), forgive, pardon, excuse, exonerate, absolve; let bygones be bygones, bury the hatchet. take something back
1 I take back every word: retract, withdraw, renounce, disclaim, unsay, disavow, recant, repudiate; formal abjure.
2 I must take the keys back: return, bring back, give back, restore. take something down I took down everything she said: write down, note down, jot down, set down, record, commit to paper, register, draft, document, minute, pen. take someone in
1 she took in paying guests: accommodate, board, house, feed, put up, admit, receive; harbor.
2 you were taken in by a hoax: deceive, delude, hoodwink, mislead, trick, dupe, fool, cheat, defraud, swindle, outwit, gull, hoax, bamboozle; informal con, put one over on. take something in
1 she could hardly take in the news: comprehend, understand, grasp, follow, absorb; informal get.
2 this route takes in some great scenery: include, encompass, embrace, contain, comprise, cover, incorporate, comprehend, hold. take someone in hand part of your job is to take young Master Jonathon in hand: control, be in charge of, dominate, master; reform, improve, correct, change, rehabilitate. take something in hand are you willing to take this project in hand? deal with, apply oneself to, come to grips with, set one's hand to, grapple with, take on, attend to, see to, sort out, take care of, handle, manage. take it out of someone the final lap has taken it out of Johnson: exhaust, drain, enervate, tire, fatigue, wear out, weary, debilitate; informal poop out. take off
1 the horse took off at great speed: run away/off, flee, abscond, take flight, decamp, leave, go, depart, make off, bolt, take to one's heels, escape; informal split, clear off, skedaddle, vamoose.
2 the plane took off: become airborne, take to the air, take wing; lift off, blast off.
3 the idea really took off: succeed, do well, become popular, catch on, prosper, flourish, thrive, boom. take someone on
1 there was no challenger to take him on: compete against, oppose, challenge, confront, face, fight, vie with, contend with, stand up to.
2 we took on extra staff: engage, hire, employ, enroll, enlist, sign up; informal take on board. take something on
1 he took on more responsibility: undertake, accept, assume, shoulder, acquire, carry, bear.
2 the study took on political meaning: acquire, assume, come to have. take one's time if the place were on fire, Mark would still take his time: go slowly, dally, dawdle, delay, linger, drag one's feet, waste time, kill time; informal dilly-dally, lollygag; archaic tarry. take someone out
1 he asked if he could take her out: go out with, escort, partner, accompany, go with; romance; informal date, see, go steady with; dated court, woo.
2 informal the sniper took them all out: kill, murder, assassinate, dispatch, execute, finish off, eliminate, exterminate, terminate; informal do in, do away with, bump off, rub out, mow down; literary slay. take something over the workers were stunned to learn that a rival corporation had taken over their company: assume control of, take charge of, take command of. take to
1 he took to carrying his money in his sock: make a habit of, resort to, turn to, have recourse to (start/begin); start, begin, commence.
2 Ruth took to the cat instantly: like, get on with, be friendly toward; informal take a shine to.
3 the dog has really taken to racing: become good at, develop an ability for; like, enjoy. take something up
1 she took up abstract painting: engage in, practice; begin, start, commence.
2 the meetings took up all her time: consume, fill, absorb, use, occupy; waste, squander.
3 her cousin took up the story: resume, recommence, restart, carry on, continue, pick up, return to.
4 he took up their offer of a job: accept, say yes to, agree to, adopt; formal accede to.
5 take the skirt up an inch: shorten, turn up; raise, lift. take up with Burt has taken up with the kids in the ski club: become friends with, (begin to) go around with, fall in with, string along with, get involved with, start seeing; informal (begin to) hang out with.
