talk 
▶verb
1 I was talking to a friend: speak, chat, chatter, gossip, prattle, babble, rattle on, blather; informal yak, gab, jaw, chew the fat, natter, rap.
2 you're talking garbage: utter, speak, say, voice, express, articulate, pronounce, verbalize, vocalize.
3 they were able to talk in peace: converse, communicate, speak, confer, consult; negotiate, parley; informal have a confab, chew the fat, rap; formal confabulate.
4 he talked of suicide: mention, refer to, speak about, discuss.
5 he learned to talk Cree: speak (in), talk in, communicate in, converse in, express oneself in; use.
6 nothing would make her talk: confess, speak out, speak up, reveal all, tell tales, give the game away, open one's mouth; informal come clean, blab, squeal, let the cat out of the bag, spill the beans, sing, rat.
7 the others will talk: gossip, pass comment, make remarks; criticize.
▶noun
1 he was bored with all this talk: chatter, gossip, prattle, jabbering, babbling, gabbling; informal yakking, gabbing, nattering.
2 she needed a talk with Jim: conversation, chat, discussion, tête-à-tête, heart-to-heart, dialogue, parley, powwow, consultation, conference, meeting; informal confab, jaw, chitchat, gossip; formal colloquy, confabulation.
3 (talks) peace talks: negotiations, discussions; conference, summit, meeting, consultation, dialogue, symposium, seminar, conclave, parley; mediation, arbitration; informal powwow.
4 she gave a talk on her travels: lecture, speech, address, discourse, oration, presentation, report, sermon; informal spiel.
5 there was talk of a takeover: gossip, rumor, hearsay, tittle-tattle; news, report.
6 informal he's all talk: boasting, bragging, idle talk, bombast, braggadocio; informal hot air, mouth.
7 baby talk: speech, language, slang, idiom, idiolect; words; informal lingo, -ese.
PHRASES
talk back to nobody talks back to Mr. Lynde: answer back (to), be impertinent to, be cheeky to, be rude to; contradict, argue with, disagree with. talk big informal See boast (sense
1 of the verb). talk down to he routinely talks down to women: condescend to, patronize, look down one's nose at, put down. talk someone into something don't even try to talk me into giving you another loan: persuade into, argue into, cajole into, coax into, bring around to, inveigle into, wheedle into, sweet-talk into, prevail on someone to; informal hustle into, fast-talk into.
