top 
▶noun
1 the top of the cliff: summit, peak, pinnacle, crest, crown, brow, head, tip, apex, vertex. ANTONYMS bottom, base.
2 the top of the table: upper part, upper surface, upper layer.
3 the carrots' green tops: leaves, shoots, stem, stalk. ANTONYMS root, tuber.
4 the top of the coffee jar: lid, cap, cover, stopper, cork.
5 a short-sleeved top: shirt, jersey, sweatshirt, sweater, pullover, vest; T-shirt, tank top; blouse.
6 by 1981 he was at the top of his profession: high point, height, peak, pinnacle, zenith, acme, culmination, climax, prime. ANTONYMS low point.
▶adjective
1 the top floor: highest, topmost, uppermost. ANTONYMS bottom, lowest.
2 the world's top scientists: foremost, leading, principal, preeminent, greatest, best, finest, elite; informal top-notch, number one, blue-ribbon, blue-chip.
3 the organization's top management: upper, chief, principal, main, leading, highest, highest-ranking, ruling, commanding, most powerful, most important.
4 a top Paris hotel: prime, excellent, superb, superior, choice, select, top-quality, top-grade, first-rate, first-class, grade A, best, finest, premier, superlative, second to none, nonpareil; informal A1, top-notch, blue-ribbon, blue-chip, number one. ANTONYMS mediocre, inferior.
5 they are traveling at top speed: maximum, maximal, greatest, utmost. ANTONYMS lowest, minimum.
▶verb
1 sales are expected to top $1.3 billion: exceed, surpass, go beyond, better, best, beat, outstrip, outdo, outshine, eclipse, go one better than, cap.
2 their debut CD is currently topping the charts: lead, head, be at the top of.
3 chocolate mousse topped with whipped cream: cover, cap, coat, smother; finish, garnish.
PHRASES
over the top the lavish dessert buffet after that meal was simply over the top: excessive, immoderate, inordinate, extreme, exaggerated, extravagant, overblown, too much, unreasonable, hyperbolic, disproportionate, undue, unwarranted, uncalled for, unnecessary, going too far. top up remember to top up your gas tank before heading back to Houston: fill, refill, refresh, freshen, replenish, recharge, resupply; supplement, add to, augment.
