when 
BrE wɛn, AmE (h)wɛn 

A.  adverb 
① (at what time, how soon) 什么时候 shénme shíhou when can I see you? 我什么时候可以见你？ ask him when he wrote the letter 问问他是什么时候写的那封信 I don't know when he will arrive 我不知道他多会儿到 I forget when 我把时间给忘了 there is some disagreement as to when … 关于何时…有一些分歧 tell me or say when (pouring drink) 够了请说一声 
② (in what circumstances) 在什么情况下 zài shénme qíngkuàng xia to know when to seek help 知道在什么情况下寻求帮助 when would such a rule be justifiable? 这样的规定适用于什么情况？ 
③ (at or on which) 在…的时候 zài… de shíhou the week when it all happened 发生这一切的那个星期 Sunday is the only day when I can relax 星期日是我唯一可以休息的日子 at the time when (moment of) 就在…的时候 (in same period) 在…期间 zài… qījiān there are times when … 有时候… on those occasions when … 在…的时候 zài… de shíhou it's times like that when you need a friend 正是那种需要朋友的时候 on Monday, when I was on my way to work 在星期一我去上班的路上 in 1993, when she was nine 在1993年她9岁时 
④ (which time) 那时 nàshí …, by when we will have received the information …，到那个时候我们就已得到消息了 …, since when he has worked in publishing …，打那以后他一直在出版业工作 …, until when we must stay calm …，在那之前我们必须保持冷静 
B.  pronoun 
① (what time) 什么时候 shénme shíhou by when? 到什么时候？ from when until when? 从什么时候到什么时候？ since when? literal 从什么时候开始？ ironic 何曾？ hécéng ？ since when has that been allowed? 那种事何曾允许过？ 
② (the time that) …的时候 … de shíhou that was when it all went wrong 那时一切都乱了套 that's when I was born (day) 那是我出生的那天 (year) 那是我出生的那年 now is when we must act 我们现在必须行动了 
C.  conjunction 
① (at the time that) 在…时 zài… shí when he got home 他到家时 I was in the bath when the phone rang 我洗澡时电话铃响了 when doing [something]; 正在做某事时 to have an accident when driving home 开车回家时出车祸 
② (during the time that) 在…期间 zài… qījiān when you're in your teens 在你的少年时期 when sailing, always wear a life jacket 驾帆船航行时一定要穿救生衣 
③ (as soon as) 一…（就） yī… (jiù) when he arrives, I'll tell him 他一到我就会告诉他的 
④ (just after which) 刚…（就） gāng… (jiù) I had just sat down when he arrived 我刚坐下来他就到了 
⑤ (after) 在…之后 zài… zhīhòu when completed, the centre will be the largest of its kind 该中心竣工后将是同类中最大的 
⑥ (once) 从…以后 cóng… yǐhòu when you've been to Scotland, you'll want to go again 去过苏格兰，还会想再去 
⑦ (whenever) 每当…时 měi dāng… shí when I sunbathe, I get freckles 我每次日光浴都长雀斑 when (it is) necessary/possible 一有必要/可能 when doing [something]; 每当做某事时 when making decisions, be objective 作决定时要客观 
⑧ (given that) 既然 jìrán why buy their products when ours are cheaper? 既然我们的产品更便宜，为什么要买他们的呢？ 
⑨ (whereas) 可是 kěshì you say he's stupid when in fact he's rather bright 你说他傻，可实际上他相当聪明 
