around 
BrE əˈraʊnd, AmE əˈraʊnd 

A.  adverb 
① (approximately) 大约 dàyuē around £200 大约200英镑 at around
3 p.m. 在下午三点钟左右 
② (in the vicinity) 在附近 zài fùjìn to be (somewhere) around; 在附近（某处） there's nobody around 附近没有人 
③ (in circulation) «product, technology» 面市 miànshì I wish I'd been around 50 years ago 我希望自己50年前就在这世上了 one of the most gifted musicians around 当今最具才华的音乐家之一 she's been around figurative colloquial 她是过来人 be around again «fashion, style» 再度流行 
④ (in all directions) 在四处 zài sìchù all around 到处 to travel around 到各地旅行 for miles around 周围数英里内 
⑤ (in a circle) 环绕着 huánràozhe the mill wheel moved around slowly 水车轮缓慢转动着 the wall goes all the way around 围墙环绕四周 what goes around comes around 善恶皆有报 
⑥ (in circumference) 以周长计 yǐ zhōucháng jì the tree trunk is three metres around 树围长三米 
⑦ (in different direction) 朝不同方向 cháo bùtóng fāngxiàng (in opposite direction) 朝相反方向 cháo xiāngfǎn fāngxiàng to go the long way around 绕远道 to do [something] the other way around figurative 以相反方式做某事 the right/wrong way around 正过来/反过来 to put one's skirt on the wrong way around 把裙子前后穿反 you're Ben and you're Tom: is that the right way around? 你是本，而你是汤姆，这回对了吧？ 
⑧ (in place) 在某处 zài mǒu chù (to place) 至某地 zhì mǒu dì (in home) 在家里 zài jiā li (to home) 到家里 dào jiā li I'll be around in a minute 我马上就过来 to ask or invite [somebody] around 邀请某人来家里 
B.  preposition 
① (in a circle, on all sides of) 围绕 wéirào the villages around Dublin 都柏林周围的村庄 she had a scarf around her head 她的头上裹着一条围巾 she put her arm around his shoulders 她搂着他的肩膀 the first person to fly around the world 环球飞行第一人 
② (throughout) 在…各处 zài… gè chù there were clothes scattered around the room 屋子里衣服扔得到处都是 (from) (all) around the world （从）世界各地 
③ (in the vicinity of, near) 在…附近 zài… fùjìn somewhere around the house/Paris 在房子/巴黎周围的某个地方 she's not from around here 她不是本地人 
④ (approximately at) 在…前后 zài… qiánhòu around midnight/1990 大约在午夜/1990年 
⑤ (to the other side of, so as to avoid) 绕过 ràoguo there's a way around the problem 有一种方法可避开这个问题 to go around the corner/a bend 绕过拐角/转弯处 
⑥ (on the basis of) 以…为基础 yǐ… wéi jīchǔ (having a centre in) 以…为中心 yǐ… wéi zhōngxīn a society built around Christian ethics 建立在基督教伦理基础之上的社会 she had built her life around her children 她的生活以她的孩子们为中心 
⑦ (when measuring) 绕…一周 rào… yī zhōu he's 90 cm around the chest 他的胸围是90厘米 
