like
1 
BrE lʌɪk, AmE laɪk 

A.  preposition 
① (similar to, resembling) 像 xiàng to be like [somebody]/[something]; 像某人/某物 you know what she's like! 你知道她的为人了吧！ what's the film like? 那部电影怎么样？ it looks like rain 看样子要下雨了 it seemed like hours 似乎过了好几个小时 
② (in the manner of) 像…一样 xiàng… yīyàng she spoke like an aristocrat 她说起话来像个贵族 like me, she loves swimming 她像我一样喜欢游泳 it happened like this … 事情是这样的… don't talk like that! 不许那么说话！ 
③ (typical of) 符合…的特点 fúhé… de tèdiǎn that's just like him! 他就是这么一个人！ it's not like her to be late 她才不会迟到呢 like father, like son 有其父必有其子 
④ (close to, approximately) 大约 dàyuē it will cost something like £100 这大概要花100英镑 it'll cost more like £200 更确切地说，这要花差不多200英镑 he's called Rufus or Rudolph or something like that 他好像叫鲁弗斯或鲁道夫之类的名字 
⑤ (such as, for example) 例如 lìrú big countries like India 印度这类大国 the basic necessities of life like food and drink 诸如食物和饮料之类的基本生活必需品 
B.  adjectiveattributive 类似的 lèisì de people of like minds 志趣相投的人 eating, drinking, and like activities 吃喝之类的活动 to be of like mind on this issue 在这个问题上意见一致 
C.  conjunction 
① (in the same way as) 像…一样 xiàng… yīyàng do it like I do 照我的做 you don't know him like I do 你不像我那么了解他 like I said, I wasn't there 正如我说过的，我当时不在那儿 to tell it like it is 实话实说 
② colloquial (as if) 好像 hǎoxiàng he behaved like he was afraid 他表现得好像很害怕 it looks like it's going to rain 看起来像要下雨 
D.  adverb 
① (nearly) 差不多 chàbuduō the sequel is nothing like as good as the original 续集远远不如原作 if it's anything like as cold as today … 要是像今天这样冷… more like colloquial 倒更像是 champagne? sparkling wine, more like! colloquial 香槟？倒更像是汽酒吧！ 
② colloquial (so to speak) 可以说 kěyǐ shuō I felt embarrassed, like 可以这么说，我觉得尴尬 it was, like, Christmas, so we wanted to have some fun 这么说吧，那天是圣诞节，所以我们想找点乐子 
E.  noun 
① (similar thing) 类似的事物 lèisì de shìwù (similar person) 类似的人 lèisì de rén did you ever see the like (of it)? 你见过这种东西吗？ and the or such like; 诸如此类 judges, lawyers, and the like 法官、律师等人士 the like of which; 如此这般 to compare like with like 同类相比 the likes of …; …之类 she doesn't associate with the likes of us! colloquial 她才不愿意跟我们这种人扯在一起！ 
② (something liked) 爱好 àihào [somebody's] likes and dislikes; 某人的好恶 
