same 
BrE seɪm, AmE seɪm 

A.  adjective 
① (just referred to) 同一的 tóngyī de (identical with) 相同的 xiāngtóng de we both went to the same school 我们俩曾在同一所学校念书 later that same day/year 当天/当年稍晚一些时候 that was the very same day that my father died 那正好是我父亲去世的那天 (in) the same way 同样地 tóngyàng de the two hats are the same colour 这两顶帽子颜色相同 one and the same 同一个 they are one and the same person 他们就是同一个人 at the same time (simultaneously) 同时 (nevertheless) 然而 she was laughing and crying at the same time 她又笑又哭的 at the same time, you can't help liking him 不过，你没法不喜欢他 to go the same way (as [somebody]/[something]) （与某人/某物）走同一条路 figurative （与某人/某物）有相同经历 (yǔ mǒu rén/mǒu wù)yǒu xiāngtóng jīnglì same difference! colloquial 一码事！ 
② (unchanged) 无变化的 wúbiànhuà de it’s still the same town 镇上还是老样子 she’s not the same woman 她已经不是原来那个女人了 the same old excuse 老一套借口 the same old story colloquial 还是老样子 
B.  adverb 同样地 tóngyàng de life goes on just the same 生活一如既往 shēnghuó yī rú jì wǎng to feel the same as [somebody] 和某人有同感 hé mǒu rén yǒu tónggǎn we treat boys exactly the same as girls 我们对男孩和女孩一视同仁 the same as usual 同往常一样 tóng wǎngcháng yīyàng 
C.  pronoun 
① (identical people) 同样的人 tóngyàng de rén (identical things) 同样的事 tóngyàng de shì I'll have the same 同样的给我来一份 don't do the same as I did and get married too young 别走我的老路，年纪轻轻就成家了 more of the same 老一套 (the) same again, please (food, drink) 请再来一份同样的 (the) same for me, please 请给我也来一份 (the) same here colloquial (expressing agreement) 我也是 (ordering food, drink) 我也要一样的 I don't know much about cars — same here, I'm afraid 我不太懂汽车──恐怕我也差不多 (the) same to you (as greeting or insult) 你也一样 you're a complete moron! — same to you! 你是一个十足的笨蛋！──你也一样！ all or just the same 尽管如此 all the same, there’s some truth in what she says 尽管如此，她的话还是有些道理 thanks all the same 还是要谢谢你 it's all the same to me 我无所谓 
② to remain or stay the same (unchanged) 保持不变 bǎochí bùbiàn she's much the same 她几乎还是老样子 tā jīhū háishi lǎo yàngzi the village is still the same 村庄仍然是老样子 my views are the same as always 我的观点一贯如此 
③ BrE formal (aforementioned person) 该人 gāi rén (aforementioned thing) 上述事物 shàngshù shìwù a dwelling together with all the movable property contained within the same 一套住宅以及其中的所有动产 was that George on the phone? — the same! 打电话的是乔治吗？──正是他！ 
④ without 'the' Busn formal (aforementioned thing) 上述情况 shàngshù qíngkuàng to installing same 安装事宜同前 re your order for four wooden doors plus furniture for same 事涉你方订购的4扇木门及其配件 
