stay 
BrE steɪ, AmE steɪ 

A.  intransitive verb 
① (remain in place) 停留 tíngliú I can’t stay 我得走了 stay! (to dog) 别动！ to stay in bed/(at) home 待在床上/家里 stay on this road until you come to a fork 沿着这条路一直走到岔路口 to stay to dinner 留下来吃晚餐 to stay for lunch/a cup of coffee 留下来吃午饭/喝杯咖啡 it will have to stay there (for) a few weeks 它还得在那儿放几周 I’ll stay and help you 我会留下来帮你 to stay put colloquial 留在原地 I taped the latch so that it would stay put 我用胶带粘住了门闩，这样它就掉不下来了 to be here to stay, to have come to stay colloquial 为多数人所接受 it looks like televised trials are here to stay 看来电视直播审判已经成了一种风气 
② (remain in particular state) 保持 bǎochí he never stays angry for long 他生气的时间向来不会长 we promised to stay friends for ever 我们保证永远做朋友 inflation stayed below 4% last month 上个月的通货膨胀率保持在4%以下 to stay in teaching 继续教书 
③ (be guest or visitor) 暂住 zànzhù do you like having people to stay? 你喜欢留客人住在家里吗？ he's coming to stay (for) a few days 他要来住几天 to stay in a hotel 住在宾馆里 he’s staying with friends this weekend 这个周末他要和朋友们一起过 
④ (spend the night) 留宿 liúsù to stay the night 过夜 guòyè 
⑤ Scottish, SAfr (live permanently) 居住 jūzhù where do you stay? 你家住在哪儿？ 
B.  transitive verb 
① (suspend, postpone) 延缓 yánhuǎn ‹proceedings›
② (stop) 阻止 zǔzhǐ (delay) 推迟 tuīchí (check) 抑制 yìzhì to stay the progress of a disease 防止病情恶化 to stay [somebody's] hand (take hold of sb.'s hand) 抓住某人的手 (stop sb. from doing sth.) 阻止某人做某事 to stay one's hand 住手 figurative 作罢 zuòbà 
③ (run all of) to stay the distance/course 跑完全程/坚持到底 páowán quánchéng/jiānchí dàodǐ 
C.  noun 
① (period) 停留 tíngliú I'm planning a stay of ten days or a ten day stay in London 我计划在伦敦逗留10天 to have an overnight stay in Singapore 在新加坡住一晚 he found out about her stays in mental hospitals 他发现她住过几次精神病院 
② Law 延缓 yánhuǎn a stay of execution (court order) 缓期执行 (postponement) 暂缓执行 to grant ([somebody]) a stay of execution 准予（某人）缓期执行 
③ (rope, wire) 支索 zhī suǒ 
D.  stays noun plural History (corset) 胸衣 xiōngyī PHRASAL VERBS stay around intransitive verb 待着不走 dāizhe bù zǒu I’ll stay around in case you need me 我就待在这儿，万一你用得着我 stay behind intransitive verb 留下 liúxia stay down intransitive verb 
① (remain in stomach) «food, drink» 留在胃里 liú zài wèi li I was so ill that not even water would stay down 我病得很重，连喝水都吐 
② (remain lowered) 保持在低处 bǎochí zài dīchù the switch wouldn't stay down 这个开关按不下去 
③ (remain lying) 躺倒 tǎngdǎo when he knocks you down, you stay down 如果他把你击倒，你就爬不起来了 
④ BrE (at school) 留级 liújí stay in intransitive verb 
① (not go out) 待在家里 dāi zài jiā li 
② (remain inserted) 固定住 gùdìng zhù the nail wouldn't stay in as the wood was rotten 木头烂了，钉子钉不住 stay on intransitive verb 
① (not fall off) 留在上面 liú zài shàngmian my hat wouldn't stay on 我的帽子老是掉下来 the lid won't stay on properly 这个盖子盖不严实 
② BrE (continue education) 留下继续学习 liúxia jìxù xuéxí to stay on in full-time education 继续接受全日制教育 he hopes to stay on at university and do research 他希望留在大学里继续学习并做研究工作 
③ (remain behind) 留下 liúxia to stay on in Britain 留在英国 
④ (continue in work post) 继续在岗 jìxù zàigǎng I would like him to stay on after his present contract expires 他现在的合同到期后，我想让他继续干下去 to stay on as a board member 继续担任董事 stay out intransitive verb 
① (not return home) 待在外面 dāi zài wàimian to stay out all night 彻夜不归 
② (continue on strike) 继续罢工 jìxù bàgōng the miners stayed out (on strike) for a year 矿工们连续罢工一年 stay out of transitive verb[stay out of something] 
① (not enter) 待在…外面 dāi zài… wàimian stay out of my room 不要进我的房间 
② (not interfere in) 不介入 bù jièrù just stay out of my business! 别插手我的事！ 
③ (avoid) 避开 bìkāi to stay out of trouble/the sun 远离是非/避免日晒 
④ (not come within) 在…之外 zài… zhī wài tell him to stay out of my way! 叫他不要挡我的路！ to stay out of sight 不让人看见 stay over intransitive verb 过夜 guòyè stay together intransitive verb 待在一起 dāi zài yīqǐ stay up intransitive verb 
① (not fall down) 保持不掉落 bǎochí bù diàoluò the trousers were so big they just wouldn't stay up! 裤子太大了，老是掉下来！ one wonders how these jerry-built houses stay up! 这些豆腐渣房子居然没倒掉，真是太奇怪了！ 
② (go to bed late) 深夜不睡 shēnyè bù shuì to stay up late 熬夜 I stayed up until
2 in the morning 我一直熬到凌晨两点 
③ (not be relegated) «team, club» 成功保级 chénggōng bǎojí stay with 
A.  transitive verb[stay with somebody] 
① (be remembered by) 留在…的记忆中 liú zài… de jìyì zhōng his words stayed with her all evening 整个晚上她的耳边都回响着他的话 
② (keep up with) 跟上 gēnshang 
B.  [stay with something] transitive verb (persevere with) 坚持做 jiānchí zuò it's a difficult book to get into, but stay with it and you'll enjoy it 这本书很难读进去，但只要你坚持读，就会喜欢上它 
