worse 
BrE wəːs, AmE wərs 

A.  adjective(comparative form of bad) 
① (more unpleasant, unsatisfactory) 更坏的 gèng huài de there's nothing worse than … 没有比…更糟糕的了 I’ve been to far worse places 我去过糟糕得多的地方 to look/taste/sound/smell worse 更难看/更难吃/更难听/更难闻 worse luck! BrE colloquial 真倒霉！ colloquial 
② (lower in standard, competence) 更差的 gèng chà de ‹performance, result›the film is worse than the book 电影比书还要差 I'm not a good swimmer, but she's even worse than me 我游泳游得不好，但她甚至比我还差 she's worse than her predecessor 她不如她的前任 
③ (more serious, severe) 更严重的 gèng yánzhòng de and to make matters worse, … 更严重的是，… there are worse things in life than … 生活中还有比…更严重的事 to get worse and worse «crisis, illness» 越来越严重 «noise» 越来越响 yuèláiyuè xiǎng my desperation grew worse 我更加绝望了 to go from bad to worse «situation, health» 每况愈下 the war was going from bad to worse 战争越来越惨烈 
④ predicative (more unwell) 健康状况更差的 jiànkāng zhuàngkuàng gèng chà de he's getting/feeling worse 他健康状况/感觉更糟了 he's worse than he was yesterday 他的病情比昨天更严重了 my back's worse today 今天我的背更痛了 
⑤ predicative (more unhappy) 更不高兴的 gèng bù gāoxìng de his death made me feel worse 他的去世使我很难过 to be none the worse for it/the experience 丝毫没有因此/因这件事心情更坏 
⑥ (more inappropriate) 更不合适的 gèng bù héshì de the decision couldn't have come at a worse time 这个时候作决定是最不恰当的 
B.  adverb(comparative form of badly) 
① (more unfavourably) 更糟糕地 gèng zāogāo de the interview could not have gone worse 那次面谈糟透了 to think worse of [somebody]/[something] 对某人/某事物评价更低 this skirt fits worse than the other 这条裙子比那条更不合身 you could do worse than take early retirement 你倒不如早点退休 
② (at lower level) 更差地 gèng chà de to do worse 干得更差 he sings worse than you 他唱得比你还差 she's doing/feeling worse today (in health) 她今天情况/感觉更差 
③ (more intensely or seriously) 更严重地 gèng yánzhòng de ‹cough, bleed›it’s raining worse than ever 雨下得比以往都大 to hurt worse than yesterday 疼得比昨天还厉害 worse still, … 更糟糕的是… 
④ (more inappropriately) 更不合适地 gèng bù héshì de ‹timed, placed›he could hardly be worse suited for this job 他最不适合做这项工作 
C.  noun 
① Countablethe worse (less desirable one) 较差者 jiàochàzhě the worse of the two novels 两本小说中较差的一本 
② Uncountable and countable(less desirable state) 更糟的情况 gèng zāo de qíngkuàng there is worse to come 更糟的还在后头 prison or worse 牢狱或者更糟的地方 a change or turn for the worse 变为更差的情况 to change for the worse «situation» 恶化 «weather» 变更恶劣 biàn gēng èliè 
